You’re a person who is always questioning why people do the things they do.
You strive to make things better and are willing to take action on it.
Most entrepreneurs are very optimistic about everything around them.
An entrepreneur never gives up
You have the ability to create unlikely partnerships from out of nowhere because of your ability to connect the dots.
You have a competitive nature and are willing to lose.
You want to be in control and in command of your own company. 
prepare for a wide range of positions and industries by introducing them to the fundamental aspects of business knowledge in accounting, finance, international business, marketing, human resources, operations and project management.
Students in a business program may spend time learning how companies of all types function, as well as how a business operates within local and global economies.
monitor and advise on a company's financial health and activity
creating financial reports, analyzing market trends, advising upper-level management on financial decisions and planning, and sometimes supervising a team of financial analysts.
Management analysts review a company's internal processes in order to help departmental and upper-level managers make decisions about how to improve efficiency and workflow.
management analysts more often work as consultants and independent contractors, which can lead to experience with a wider variety of industries and businesses
help oversee the recruiting, hiring, and training of employees, as well as often administering benefits and resolving employee complaints and disputes.
outgoing and enjoy working with many different people throughout an organization.
Sales managers are responsible for building relationships with vendors and other businesses in order to secure sales contracts for a company's products and services.
involves dealing directly with clients and customers, strong communication and interpersonal skills are important for a sales position.
dditional responsibilities may include analyzing sales data, creating pricing plans, coordinating promotional efforts, and setting sales quotas.
marketing managers are typically responsible for researching demand and profitability for a company's products and services, ultimately identifying target markets and creating marketing plans and pricing strategies.
Promotions and advertising managers are responsible for implementing these marketing plans by generating awareness and interest in products and services, as well as coordinating regional and national sales and events.
students are strongly encouraged to participate in a study-abroad trip where they will get hands-on global business experience.
students have the business fundamentals, but also the communication and teamwork skills.
Business education has come to be defined in the minds of students as a place for developing elite social networks and getting access to corporate recruiters
earn less than those in more math-focused business majors, such as finance and accounting.
protect ourselves in work contexts that can often be challenging, threatening, and relentless, there are benefits to making our work, leadership, and followership personal.
work with budgets and investments, either for individual clients or within a larger company, the choice between an accounting and finance degree can be a tough one.
enjoy problem solving, have a strict attention to detail, or find that you enjoy watching the stock market and making predictions about investments.
finance majors will need to have strong math skills and be able to work with complex data sets, but finance roles may offer more opportunities to work with a variety of clients and investors as opposed to accountant roles that can involve more solitary, personal work.
prepare to monitor and analyze trends in financial markets, assess and plan for a company or individual's long-term financial health, and advise on investment decisions.
include several introductory financial management courses, as well as Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, and Principles of Accounting.
designed to further develop students' knowledge of financial management tools, analysis and investment practices, and the complex financial systems through which today's businesses operate.
designed to help students fine-tune their financial analysis and management skills, often with an increased emphasis on global financial management and corporate strategy.
Individual investors as well as companies of all sizes need help making important financial decisions, which means finance degrees tend to be fairly versatile.
Financial managers monitor a company's financial health and activity in order to minimize risk and maximize profit.
responsible for generating financial statements and providing advice to upper management on how to direct the company's wealth and financial planning.
Common job titles for financial managers include credit managers, cash managers or insurance mangers.
Financial examiners work to make sure that banks and other financial institutions are compliant with all federal finance laws and regulations.
Some are responsible for reviewing lending institutions' balance sheets and expense accounts to ensure they are financially stable, while other positions involve protecting borrowers from predatory lending and other unfair loan practices.
spent reviewing financial records to prevent any errors or wrongdoing from destabilizing the overall health of a financial institution.
help making investment decisions
Analysts may work at investment firms or within a particular company.
Responsibilities may include keeping track of investment portfolios, evaluating the performance of various stocks and bonds over time, and advising clients and management on when to buy and sell.
financial advisors help their clients with long-term financial planning and investments.
work one-on-one with individuals and families rather than larger businesses.
involve more than just investment portfolios, often extending to various types of savings and retirement accounts as well as helping clients plan for major life events like buying a home, paying for children's college, and retirement.
sales agents arrange the actual buying and selling of securities (like stocks and bonds) and commodities.
work with financial planners and analysts to complete trades in financial markets, often offering advice on what to buy and sell.
Brokers and sales agents typically cultivate their own client portfolios rather than working exclusively within a single company.
financial planning prepares you to help individuals and small businesses manage their assets and plan for their financial future.
Professionals with a financial planning degree usually become personal financial planners who either holistically manage finances, or specialize in an area like investment strategy, estate planning, retirement savings, healthcare planning or income planning.
finance teaches you in-demand skills in areas including data analytics, risk management, capital allocation, and investment strategy.
Through coursework you’ll also gain much needed soft skills like collaboration, verbal and written communication, and adaptability. 
starts and runs a business with limited resources and planning and is responsible for all the risks and rewards of his or her business venture.
Entrepreneurial ventures target very high returns to growth with an equally high level of uncertainty.
Business schools and specialized academic programs educate and train students in successful entrepreneurship.
These degrees may come at a significant expense, and some argue that successful entrepreneurship is something that can't be learned in school.
develop effectual reasoning.
learn how to identify goals as they grow naturally and learn strategies for facilitating the evolution of those objectives.
learn about concepts such as bootstrapping and different marketing techniques, as well as how to start a business from the ground up.
learn about business plans, but you also learn how to calculate the return on the investments a company makes and how different business models work. Within a business major, there may be different specialties, but the core curriculum focuses on developing that causal, linear focus.
learn more about effectual business matters while still developing knowledge about business theory and how companies operate.
business degrees tend to be more corporate-focused.
develop your business instincts
developing your business reasoning in this way is valuable.
identify opportunities and think critically about how to take advantage of them.
entrepreneurship programs tend to cost more and require more of a time investment, meaning the costs are even higher.
Entrepreneurship is a key element for any country aiming to be competitive in the knowledge-basedglobal market due to the fact that it has been generally viewed as a method promoting economic growth, creativity, and innovation.
educational institutions make yearly efforts toprovide students with entrepreneurial role models in the classrooms
dealing with company creation, creation of self-employment support units and university seedbed development, or creativity andentrepreneurship workshops are a few examples of initiatives developed within universities aimed toencourage students to create companies
integrate entrepreneurshipeducation into academic programmes at all higher education insitutions. 
Communication with the business community and student involvement in this process have beenfacilitated through business hub infrastructure. 
business degree is designed to provide students with a general understanding of business functions.
Students will take courses in management, finance, accounting, marketing, and may even take a course in entrepreneurship.
teaches students the skills needed to enter an existing business and help perpetuate its success.
Students will study important topics relating to human resources, organizational behavior, finance, and other topics integral to the day-to-day function of a business.
offer students the opportunity to specialize their degree into different areas.
allows students to sample different career paths through the various courses that make up a bachelor’s in business degree.
seeing through the day-to-day operations of a team of employees.
focuses heavily on maintaining the most important aspect of a business,
take part in the hiring and training of new employees, and they are instrumental in ensuring that business operations happen on-time and on-budget.
focused on attracting new business and new clients.
identify markets most suitable for your product or service.
tends to incorporate a little more left-brain creativity, so if you’re looking for a business career that eschews numbers and statistics, this could be a great fit for you.
someone who knows they want to work in business but isn’t sure if they want to specialize their education beyond that.
Many people with entrepreneurial degrees find themselves within existing businesses or organizations working in business development or recruiting.
it relates heavily to guiding a company’s future.
work to help grow the business by finding other businesses to partner with. Recruitment positions are similar in that you will find new people to work for the business to bring fresh ideas and new perspectives in.
help other businesses flourish.
business consultants act as guns-for-hire.
keeps your day-to-day work fresh with new clients and new challenges.
CEO, CFO, or some other chief officer
understanding needed to think big and guide a business towards a brighter future.
signal to employers that you’re focused on the big picture of a business.
students will use their inside knowledge of business to cover news related to businesses.
rumors of new mergers, or an interesting new startup, business reporters will shine a light on exciting happenings in the world of business.
use gold as a hedge against stock market volatility.
With gold moving sideways and cryptocurrencies seeing a massive resurgence over the last two years
Gold has been present for thousands of years as a safe and reliable asset.
gold prices have fluctuated in the short term, much like the stock market, the precious metal's value has stayed relatively steady over time.
Gold prices can rise as a result of inflation
Investment banking offers the opportunity to become an expert at building large, complex financial models at the earliest stage of your career.
spend a lot of time on valuation work, and this can be an excellent way to start your career.
money is most likely a huge motivation for you
make a decision today to use the money you saved yesterday to make yourself better off tomorrow.
Investing is how you take charge of your financial security.
It allows you to grow your wealth but also generate an additional income stream if needed ahead of retirement.
Various investments such as stocks, ETFs, bonds, or real estate will provide either growth or income but in some cases both.
When taking investing seriously, the returns generated from your investments can provide financial stability in the future.
investing for some people means putting in money to achieve profit, for some other it can also mean investing time or effort for some future benefit such as investing in oneself’s skills or health.
putting money into financial product, shares, property, or a commercial venture with the expectation of achieving a profit
Investing means committing capital or funds to different types of assets with the expectation that you will generate a gain or profit in the future from these investments.
Investing is also sometimes mixed up with saving (interest rate only) and speculation (penny stocks or options trading).
investment is a more active way of deploying your wealth while saving is generally understood as storing a part of your income without worrying about where you are deploying your surplus funds.
Investing is also different from speculation as speculation is generally considered as targeting high returns from your investments within a short period of time.
When trying to build wealth or outperform an index, you need the right tools to find your winning investment.
Investing funds in an asset involves a tradeoff as the investor foregoes the utility of using the funds for his investment in the present for some higher utility in the future.
Investing in a bond can benefit the investor in the form of regular payouts or coupons which are given during predetermined time periods.
Investing in real estate can also benefit an investor through rental income and capital gains.
everyone needs to invest a part of his income during working years to ensure a nest egg during his retirement years.
A lot of young people also want to retire early so they need to invest a larger portion of their income in order to meet their goals.
Investing can also help in saving taxes
Investing is also important to beat inflation.
Investing is one of the key ways in achieving the financial goals for oneself.
By investing through a mix of assets, an individual can build up the corpus required for the down payment.
Investing requires specialized knowledge about finance and different types of asset classes.
Investing is very closely related to risk which is an indicator of the return that you would expect from investing in a specific asset.
the risk from investing in a stock is generally higher than that of a bond so the return expectation is also higher from stock than a bond.
stocks, commodities, fixed income, gold, real estate, art, derivatives and alternative investments such as venture and private equity capital.
The investing style approach you choose will depends on your interest in the topic and the amount of time you are willing to invest in.
A dividend income stock will usually have a higher dividend yield where as a dividend growth stock will have a lower dividend yield.
Retirees often seek high yield stocks to fund their retirement in an attempt to avoid depleting their portfolio.
provides a method to avoid running out of money and have more control over it.
looks at trends from the stock price movement and volume.
Investors can make money with cryptocurrency by mining Bitcoin, or simply selling their Bitcoin at a profit.
Cryptocurrencies allow for secure payments online
Bitcoin is by far the most popular cryptocurrency,
cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that is secured by cryptography, which makes it nearly impossible to counterfeit or double-spend.
Many cryptocurrencies are decentralized networks based on blockchain technology—a distributed ledger enforced by a disparate network of computers.
Cryptocurrencies hold the promise of making it easier to transfer funds directly between two parties, without the need for a trusted third party like a bank or credit card company.
Central to the appeal and functionality of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is blockchain technology,
The goal of investing is to put your money to work in one or more types of investment vehicles in the hopes of growing your money over time.
Investing in the stock market is the most common way for beginners to gain investment experience.
investing in your future with allocations to mutual funds and even your own company's stock.
Money management broadly refers to the processes utilized to record and administer an individual's, household's, or organization's finances.
The predominant use of the phrase in financial markets is that of an investment professional making investment decisions for large pools of funds, such as mutual funds or pension plans.
The term can also refer more narrowly to investment management and portfolio management.
Money management refers to the processes of budgeting, saving, investing, spending, or otherwise overseeing the capital usage of an individual or group.
The Economics faculty represents an unusually wide range of specialties as well as a variety of traditional and non-traditional approaches to economics. 
The Economics major allows exploration of a variety of disciplinary and interdisciplinary views on economic questions and policy. 
The economics major provides substantial intellectual depth and interdisciplinary breadth as well as critical thinking.
Economics is very much concerned with policy issues such as these and the major in Economics provides students with the analytical and critical thinking skills necessary for understanding these and other troubling problems facing the world.
Corporate management practices at some of our premier corporations such as Enron, WorldCom, General Electric, and Tyco have had dramatic and sometimes devastating consequences for employees and stockholders.
What are the causes of this crisis and who is to blame? Are government bailout policies to shore up the financial sector and stimulate the economy good policies and are they working? 
The financial and economic crisis  which began in 2007 came dangerously close to a complete breakdown of the U.S. financial system in 2008 and it is causing widespread economic hardship in 2009 for millions of people who have lost their homes and their jobs.  
Domestic economic concerns are also prevalent in daily news reports
Every day we hear about economically related problems on a global scale
You learn to apply a variety of theoretical perspectives to issues of economic efficiency, economic growth, globalism, social justice, wealth and poverty, power, individual freedom, discrimination, cultural values, and environmental concerns. 
Economics students learn to think creatively and deeply about some of the most important economic concerns facing the world today. 
The Economics major provides the preparation for understanding economic issues of great importance
In other words, there is very little government interference.
Market economic systems are based on the concept of free markets. 
The people regulate other less important sectors of the economy, such as agriculture.
In such a case, the government comes in and exercises control over the resources. 
If an economy enjoys access to many resources, chances are that it may lean towards a command economic structure. 
Also known as a planned system, the command economic system is common in communist societies since production decisions are the preserve of the government.
there is a dominant centralized authority – usually the government – that controls a significant portion of the economic structure. 
The traditional economic system is based on goods, services, and work, all of which follow certain established trends. 
Submit trades in a virtual environment before you start risking your own money.
Compete with thousands of Investopedia traders and trade your way to the top! 
Put your trading skills to the test with our FREE Stock Simulator. 
The word economy is Greek and means "household management." Economics as an area of study was touched on by philosophers in ancient Greece, notably Aristotle, but the modern study of economics began in 18th century Europe, particularly in Scotland and France.
In short, macroeconomics studies how the aggregate economy behaves.
Changes in unemployment and national income are also studied.
Macroeconomics also focuses on the rate of economic growth or gross domestic product (GDP), which represents the total amount of goods and services produced in an economy.
Macroeconomics includes the study of economy-wide factors such as the effect of rising prices or inflation on the economy.
Macroeconomics, on the other hand, studies the entire economy, focusing on large-scale decisions and issues.
Microeconomics tends to focus on economic tendencies, such as how individual choices and actions impact changes in production.
Microeconomics studies why various goods have different values and how individuals coordinate and cooperate with each other. 
Microeconomics studies the behavior of individuals and firms in order to understand why they make the economic decisions they do and how these decisions affect the larger economic system. 
The discipline of economics can be broken into two major areas of focus, microeconomics, and macroeconomics.
The study of economies and the factors affecting economies is called economics.
Supply and demand cannot play out naturally in this system because it is centrally planned, so imbalances are common.
Command-based economies are dependent on a central political agent, which controls the price and distribution of goods.
As a result, the term market economy refers to an economy that is more market-oriented in general.
Pure market economies rarely exist since there's usually some government intervention or central planning.
As the prices in one sector for an industry rise due to demand, the money, and labor necessary to fill that demand shift to those places where they're needed.
As a result, a market economy has a tendency to naturally balance itself. 
In turn, production tends to increase to satisfy the demand since producers are driven by profit.
 If consumer demand for a specific good increases, prices tend to rise as consumers are willing to pay more for that good.
Through these decisions, the laws of supply and demand determine prices and total production.
Producers own what they make and decide their own prices, while consumers own what they buy and decide how much they’re willing to pay. 
The United State is mostly a market economy where consumers and producers determine what’s sold and produced. 
Market-based economies allow individuals and businesses to freely exchange goods through the market, according to supply and demand.
The economy of a particular region or country is governed by its culture, laws, history, and geography, among other factors, and it evolves due to the choices and actions of the participants. 
Everyone from individuals to entities such as families, corporations, and governments participate in this process. 
These decisions are made through some combination of market transactions and collective or hierarchical decision making.
An economy encompasses all activity related to production, consumption, and trade of goods and services in an area. 
Market-based economies tend to allow goods to flow freely through the market, according to supply and demand.
The production, consumption, and distribution of goods and services are used to fulfill the needs of those living and operating within the economy, which is also referred to as an economic system.
An economy is the large set of inter-related production, consumption, and exchange activities that aid in determining how scarce resources are allocated. 
A degree in business and economics provides students with knowledge of the fundamental principles of economics and how they affect international finance, public policies and business management.
Graduates are prepared for advanced degree programs or careers in many business and financial industry fields, as well as government and nonprofit organizations.
The undergraduate business and economics degree provides students with a broad foundation of economics concepts and their applications to business and finance.
Students will learn how the concepts of production, supply and consumption affect global business and government relationships and international financial markets, as well as individual companies and communities.
Program participants study banking, corporate finance, investment and securities, as well as economic analysis.
Students can focus their coursework toward their interests or career goals.
Areas of study within the program include econometrics, private equity and hedge fund investments, international finance and business administration.
Students benefit from the business and economics degree program in many ways.
In addition to learning analytical and qualitative approaches to solving economic problems, participants gain an understanding of how economic trends affect decisions within firms.
Program structure and length differ depending on the university, and as a result, total cost varies across institutions.
Interested students should research schools to get a clear vision of time and tuition investment for individual programs.
Graduates possess a substantial knowledge base and skill set that is valuable in almost any business or finance setting.
A business and economics degree is valuable in banking and finance, investment firms, business management and international development projects.
Graduates are also prepared for positions in government and nonprofit organizations that require economic analysis and financial management skills
Many students pursue this undergraduate degree in order to qualify for postgraduate study programs in specialized areas such as econometrics or MBAs.
Have you always been fascinated by business, management, entrepreneurship and the economics of building, sustaining and growing an enterprise?
Do you have a love for economics and the macro and micro economic theories behind day-to-day interactions and transactions in business and finance?
so, majoring in Business Economics at York can be a fantastic stepping-stone to a variety of careers and professional paths.
Whether as preparation for an immediate career or an eventual MBA, majoring in Business Economics will expose you to important issues in contemporary global business, will put you at the crossroads of business management and economic theory, and will give you the analytical tools to tackle important challenges faced by today’s business leaders.
Accountant, Author, Banker, Blogger, Brand Strategist, Business Ethics Consultant, Business Media Correspondent, Business Planner, Commodity Trader, Corporate Consultant, Corporate Manager, Economist, Entrepreneur, Executive Assistant, Financial Advisor, Financial Analyst, Fund Manager, Government Worker
Industry Analyst, Lawyer, Logistics Specialist, Magazine Contributor, Marketing Director, Market Researcher, Political Advisor, Portfolio Manager, Professor, Project Manager, Public Policy Analyst, Public Relations Representative, Recruiter, Retail Strategist, Risk Analyst, Stock Analyst, Trader, Venture Capitalist
They apply economic theory to endeavors such as banking, finance, manufacturing, education, law, international trade, labor, insurance, agriculture, health, criminal justice, energy, natural resources and telecommunications.
The field of economics provides a framework for analyzing and solving problems that arise from scarcity. 
Public issues—inflation, unemployment, budget deficits and environmental pollution, for example—as well as individual and business decision-making, are examples of the economist's work.
International Financial Management, Industrial Organization, Economics of Regulated Industries, Econometrics, Experimental Economics, Labor Economics
Monetary Economics, Public Sector Economics, International Trade Theory, Information Economics and the Internet, Law and Economics
including business, finance, accounting, and many more. 
The concepts taught in an economics degree are more overarching than those learned in a business degree, as business schools are more aimed at teaching skills that are directly related to business career paths.
Generally I would consider our business degree, and any business degree to be more of an interdisciplinary degree than an economics degree,” said Maia Young, Associate Professor at the Paul Merage School of Business at the University of California, Irvine.
Have you always been fascinated by business, management, entrepreneurship and the economics of building, sustaining and growing an enterprise? 
Do you have a love for economics and the macro and micro economic theories behind day-to-day interactions and transactions in business and finance? 
If so, majoring in Business Economics at York can be a fantastic stepping-stone to a variety of careers and professional paths.
Whether as preparation for an immediate career or an eventual MBA, majoring in Business Economics will expose you to important issues in contemporary global business, will put you at the crossroads of business management and economic theory, and will give you the analytical tools to tackle important challenges faced by today’s business leaders.
Economics majors compete very well against most business majors for jobs in the business world.
Many large corporations value the broad analytical training received by economics majors.
Economics majors have also generally studied demand theory and estimation, production and cost theory, analysis of market structure, antitrust policy, government regulation of business, capital budgeting, inflation theory, unemployment, the determination of interest rates, and international economics. 
Employers know that this knowledge will enhance their performance in managerial decision making.
Business economists are prepared to help firms understand and adapt to a changing economic environment.
They often interpret and forecast the general economic climate, analyze conditions specific to their firm, and also aid the firm’s operational efficiency.
Many Mason students find private sector jobs in banking, consulting, insurance, real estate, brokerage firms, marketing, data management, budgeting, general management, sales, and in Virginia’s high-tech industries.
The range of jobs for economists in government is as broad as government itself.
Government economists work for agencies in the fields of agriculture, business, finance, labor, transportation, utilities, urban economics, and international trade.
Federal government employers like the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Fannie Mae, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Transportation and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have hired Mason students as entry-level economists. 
Mason graduates also get government jobs at the state and local level.
Virginia requires economics education and financial literacy as party of the high-school curriculum.
Students who pursue graduate-level training in economics may go on to teach at the college level.
Administrative Assistant, Analyst, Assistant Project Manager, Budget Analyst, Economist, Industry Analyst, Field Marketing Associate, Financial Assistant, Leasing Consultant, Loan Officer, Operations Research Systems Analyst, Project Administrator, Research Assistant, Sales Engineer, Sales Intern, State Policy Analyst, Statistician, Systems Analyst, Teller
What you will study on an economics degree course, and what jobs will be available after you graduate
Economics is the practical and theoretical science of the production and distribution of wealth.
It is based around the system of the production, buying and selling of goods and services
business.
management.
mba.
business administration.
business manager.
business strategy.
business degree.
business process management.
business management courses.
management courses.
business management degree.
international business management.
business administration salary.
business courses.
business administration degree.
business management jobs.
business administration courses.
business management salary.
what is business management.
business management consultant.
business and management.
management degree.
business management software.
small business management.
business management career.
International Financial Management.
Industrial Organization.
Economics of Regulated Industries.
Econometrics.
Experimental Economics.
Labor Economics.
Economics, at its very heart, is the study of people.
It seeks to explain what drives human behaviour, decisions and reactions when faced with difficulties or successes.
Economics is a discipline which combines politics, sociology, psychology and history.
When you study economics you gain a toolkit of skills, approaches and ways of thinking that you can apply to a wide range of problems.
Economics is one of the central disciplines underpinning the study of business and management and public policy.
An economics degree gives you a high level of mathematical and statistical skills and the ability to apply economic principles and models to problems in business, finance and the public sector.
More broadly, economic concepts can be applied to understand the logic of complicated data, to see how things relate to each other, and to see the broader context.
There are careers that use specific knowledge of economics, for example banks, insurance, accountancy firms, businesses and in government.
These jobs may involve identifying financial risks or making decisions about where a company or a government should invest its resources in the future, or even how to design a bidding platform for eBay.
There are also roles for economists in think tanks and consultancies that advise governments and companies on public policy, such as how to deal with the Greek debt crisis.
More broadly, an economics degree helps prepare you for careers that require numerical, analytical and problem solving skills – for example in business planning, marketing, research and management.
Economics helps you to think strategically and make decisions to optimise the outcome.
Especially in demand are people who have studied Economics and Finance as they are particularly well-prepared for jobs in banking and the financial sector, such as in accountancy firms.