Each of the volumes of the Chemical Engineering Series includes numerical examples to illustrate the application of the theory presented in the text
A drop of liquid spreads over a horizontal surface
The final shape of the drop as indicated by its diameter, d, may be obtained by using the argument in (a) and putting R D 0.
Liquid is flowing at a volumetric flowrate of Q per unit width down a vertical surface
The key to this solution lies in the fact that the operation involved is an irreversible expansion
Atoms are the basic building blocks of matter
The hydraulic mean diameter, dm, is defined as four times the cross-sectional area divided by the wetted perimeter.
The table we know today is a descendant of that invented in 1869 by a wild-haired Russian named Dmitri Mendeleev
Atoms join together to form compounds and molecules.
Stoichiometry describes the proportions between atoms in molecules and reactants/products in chemical reactions
There are several types of chemical reactions that can occur.
The properties of the elements exhibit trends based on the structure of their electrons.
Several types of reactions occur in water
Three important types of reactions in water are precipitation, acid-base, and oxidation-reduction reactions.
In an oxidation-reduction or redox reaction, there is an exchange of electrons between two reactants
It's important to understand how mixtures behave.
The species that gains electrons are said to be reduced.
Acids and bases are concerned with the actions of hydrogen ions or protons in aqueous solutions.
Nuclear chemistry is concerned with the behavior of protons and neutrons in the atomic nucleus.
All matter consists of particles called atoms.
Atoms of different elements form compounds, molecules, and objects.
Atoms consist of three parts
toms cannot be divided using chemicals.
The nucleus of an atom contains protons and neutrons
Electrons move around outside the nucleus.
Atoms are very small
The average size of an atom is about 100 picometers or one ten-billionth of a meter.
In a redox reaction, the oxidation numbers of atoms are changed.
In a synthesis reaction, two or more chemical species combine to form a more complex product.
Chemistry is the study of matter and energy and the interactions between them
Chemistry tends to focus on the properties of substances and the interactions between different types of matter, particularly reactions that involve electrons.
Because understanding chemistry helps you to understand the world around you.
Everything you can touch or taste or smell is a chemical.
You could use chemistry in most fields, but it's commonly seen in the sciences and in medicine.
Some chemists work in a lab, in a research environment, asking questions and testing hypotheses with experiments.
Some chemists do field work
In the pharmaceutical industry chemists develop drugs and study their properties in order to determine the quality and stability of medicines
Chemists typically specialise in biochemistry, neurochemistry, nuclear chemistry or theoretical chemistry.
ome chemists even work in forensic science to establish evidence in criminal investigations.
Chemists must be highly technically skilled and adhere to strict procedures and health and safety requirements
All chemists work with simple forms of matter to either reach a greater understanding of the chemical itself,
Maintain laboratory instruments
A chemist also works to improve the quality of established chemical products and utilizes advanced computer programs to establish new technologies in the field.
A mole is simply a unit of measurement.
Units are invented when existing units are inadequate.
Originally, a mole was the quantity of anything that has the same number of particles found in 12.000 grams of carbon-12
A solution is a homogeneous mixture of two or more components
The particles in suspensions are larger than those found in solutions
Liquids, solids, and gasses all may be mixed to form colloidal dispersions.
There are several methods of defining acids and bases.
The Arrhenius theory of acids and bases dates back to 1884
The Brønsted or Brønsted-Lowry theory describes acid-base reactions as an acid releasing a proton and a base accepting a proton
The Lewis theory of acids and bases is the least restrictive model
Robert Boyle described the qualities of acids and bases in 1661
acids are corrosive
bases don't change the color of litmus; they can turn red (acidified) litmus back to blue
The strength of acids and bases depends on their ability to dissociate or break into their ions in water.
strong acid or strong base completely dissociates
a weak acid or weak base only partially dissociates
Acids and bases are used in many chemical reactions.
Binary acids have the prefix hydro in front of the full name of the nonmetallic element
Ternary acids commonly contain hydrogen, a nonmetal, and oxygen.
The acid containing one more oxygen than the most common acid has the per- prefix and the -ic ending.
There are six strong acids.
. Examples of weak acids include hydrofluoric acid, HF, and acetic acid, CH3COOH.
The equation for calculating pH was proposed in 1909 by Danish biochemist Søren Peter Lauritz Sørensen
pH is a measure of hydrogen ion concentration, a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution.
The pH scale usually ranges from 0 to 14
Very strong acids might have a negative pH, while very strong bases might have a pH greater than 14.
pH only has meaning in an aqueous solution
The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) has a slightly different pH scale
Rough pH measurements can be made using litmus paper or another type of pH paper known to change colors around a certain pH value
More accurate measurements are made using primary standards to calibrate a glass electrode and pH meter
pH is used in everyday life as well as science and industry
There are two key terms associated with buffers.
A buffer is an aqueous solution that has a highly stable pH
A buffering agent is a weak acid or weak base that helps maintain the pH of an aqueous solution after adding another acid or base
A buffer is made by mixing a large volume of a weak acid or weak base together with its conjugate
When acids and bases react with each other, they can form a salt
Depending on the solubility of the salt, it may remain in ionized form in the solution or it may precipitate out of solution
When strong acids and strong bases react, the products are salt and water.
When a weak acid reacts with a strong base the resulting solution will be basic.
Atomic mass and atomic mass number are two important concepts in chemistry.
In the periodic table, the atomic mass listed for an element reflects the natural abundance of the element.
Atoms are the basic building blocks of all types of matter.
The two main types of bonds formed between atoms are ionic bonds and covalent bonds.
An ionic bond is formed when one atom accepts or donates one or more of its valence electrons to another atom
A covalent bond is formed when atoms share valence electrons
The atoms do not always share the electrons equally, so a polar covalent bond may be the result
The electrons that participate in metallic bonds may be shared between any of the metal atoms in the region
A molecule or compound is made when two or more atoms form a chemical bond, linking them together.
Atoms that participate in an ionic bond have different electronegativity values from each other.
In a covalent bond, the atoms are bound by shared electrons
In a true covalent bond, the electronegativity values are the same
If the electron is shared equally between the atoms forming a covalent bond, then the bond is said to be nonpolar.
For example, the atoms in water, H2O, are held together by polar covalent bonds. 
Electrochemical reactions involve the transfer of electrons. 
Mass and charge are conserved when balancing these reactions, but you need to know which atoms are oxidized and which atoms are reduced during the reaction
The convention is that the cation is written first in a formula, followed by the anion. For example, in NaH, the H is H-; in HCl, the H is H+.
The oxidation number of a free element is always 0. The atoms in He and N2, for example, have oxidation numbers of 0.
The oxidation number of a monatomic ion equals the charge of the ion
he oxidation number of oxygen in compounds is usually -2. 
The oxidation number of a Group IA element in a compound is +1.
The oxidation number of a Group IIA element in a compound is +2.
The sum of the oxidation numbers of all of the atoms in a neutral compound is 0.
Lewis structures, also known as electron dot structures, are named after Gilbert N. Lewis
Lewis structures depict the bonds between atoms of a molecule, as well as any unbonded electron pairs.
A Lewis structure is a type of shorthand notation.
Atoms are written using their element symbols
Lines are drawn between atoms to indicate chemical bonds.
Single lines are single bonds, double lines are double bonds, and triple lines are triple bonds
Start your structure by picking a central atom and writing its element symbol.
 Lewis electron dot structures show the valence electrons for each atom.
Once you have determined how many electrons to draw around each atom, you can begin placing them on the structure.
Molecular geometry or molecular structure is the three-dimensional arrangement of atoms within a molecule.
 It is important to be able to predict and understand the molecular structure of a molecule because many of the properties of a substance are determined by its geometry.
The three-dimensional structure of a molecule is determined by its valence electrons,
Pairs of electrons are shared between atoms in a molecule and hold the atoms together.
Molecules with the same chemical formula may have atoms arranged differently.
Isomers may have very different properties from each other
You can use Lewis structures to predict molecular geometry
Molecules and moles are important to understand when studying chemistry and physical science.
A molecule is a combination of two or more atoms that are held together by chemical bonds, such as covalent bonds and ionic bonds.
A molecule is the smallest unit of a compound that still displays the properties associated with that compound
Molecules may contain two atoms of the same element,
In chemistry, a compound is a molecule consisting of at least two different types of atoms
The molecular weight of a molecule is calculated by adding the atomic weight
The formula weight of an ionic compound is calculated by adding its atomic weights according to its empirical formula.
The formula weight of an ionic compound is calculated by adding its atomic weights according to its empirical formula.
This number, Avogadro's number, is 6.022x1023
Avogadro's number may be applied to atoms, ions, molecules, compounds, elephants, desks, or any object.
The mass in grams of one mole of a compound is equal to the molecular weight of the compound in atomic mass units
One mole of a compound contains 6.022x1023 molecules of the compound.
Converting between molecules and moles is done by either multiplying by or dividing by Avogadro's number
Two different compounds are formed by the elements carbon and oxygen
A chemical equation describes what happens in a chemical reaction
Balancing a chemical equation refers to establishing the mathematical relationship between the quantity of reactants and products
To balance redox reactions, you must assign oxidation numbers to the reactants and products
Matter occurs in four states: solids, liquids, gases, and plasma
Often the state of matter of a substance may be changed by adding or removing heat energy from it.
For example, the addition of heat can melt ice into liquid water and turn water into steam.
Matter has mass and takes up space.
Under exceptional conditions, other states of matter also exist.
The word "matter" refers to everything in the universe that has mass and takes up space
States of matter are generally described on the basis of qualities that can be seen or felt
A solid has a definite shape and volume because the molecules that make up the solid are packed closely together and move slowly.
A liquid has a definite volume but takes the shape of its container.
Gases may liquefy when they cool, as is the case with water vapor.
Plasma has neither a definite volume nor a definite shape
Scientists are discovering new states of matter all the time
 In addition to the four main states of matter, other states include superfluid,
The periodic table arranges the elements by periodic properties, which are recurring trends in physical and chemical characteristics. 
 Elements tend to gain or lose valence electrons to achieve stable octet formation
The atomic radius of an element is half of the distance between the centers of two atoms of that element that are just touching each other
Generally, the atomic radius decreases across a period from left to right and increases down a given group
 The atoms with the largest atomic radii are located in Group I and at the bottom of groups.
Moving from left to right across a period, electrons are added one at a time to the outer energy shell
 Electrons within a shell cannot shield each other from the attraction to protons.
Since the number of protons is also increasing, the effective nuclear charge increases across a period
Moving down a group in the periodic table, the number of electrons and filled electron shells increases, but the number of valence electrons remains the same
The outermost electrons in a group are exposed to the same effective nuclear charge
The ionization energy, or ionization potential, is the energy required to remove an electron from a gaseous atom or ion completely.
he closer and more tightly bound an electron is to the nucleus, the more difficult it will be to remove, and the higher its ionization energy will be.
The first ionization energy is the energy required to remove one electron from the parent atom
The second ionization energy is the energy required to remove a second valence electron from the univalent ion to form the divalent ion, and so on
Successive ionization energies increase.
The second ionization energy is always greater than the first ionization energy
Ionization energies increase moving from left to right across a period
Ionization energy decreases moving down a group
Group I elements have low ionization energies because the loss of an electron forms a stable octet.
Electron affinity reflects the ability of an atom to accept an electron.
Electronegativity is a measure of the attraction of an atom for the electrons in a chemical bond
Chemistry is the branch of science that studies the behaviour and interaction of elements
A magnet is any material capable of producing a magnetic field.
Everything you hear, see, smell, taste, and touch involves chemistry and chemicals 
According to the ACS, chemistry is the study of matter, defined as anything that has mass and takes up space
The atomic magnetic dipole is the source of magnetism
Chemistry is a big part of our everyday life
Some common chemistry may be obvious, but others might surprise us.
You find chemistry in foods, the air, cleaning chemicals, your emotions, and literally every object you can see or touch.
Your body is made up of chemical compounds, which are combinations of elements.
The emotions that you feel are a result of chemical messengers, primarily neurotransmitters.
Love, jealousy, envy, infatuation, and infidelity all share a basis in chemistry.
Chemistry holds the explanation for why ice floats while most other substances sink when they freeze.
You can form a crude soap by mixing ashes and animal fat
Sunscreen uses chemistry to filter or block the sun's harmful ultraviolet rays to protect you from a sunburn, skin cancer
Cooking itself is really just chemistry.
Lightning strikes produce Ozone, hence the characteristic smell after lightning storms
The only solid elements that assume liquid form ​at room temperature are bromine and mercury. 
Unlike many substances, water expands as it freezes.
There is about 0.4 pound or 200 grams of salt (NaCl) in the average adult human body
The only two non-silvery metals are gold and copper.
Helium balloons float because helium is lighter than air.
It's possible to die from drinking too much water.
Liquid air has a bluish tint, similar to water.
By the time you feel thirsty, you've already lost about 1% of your body's water.
Dry ice is the solid form of carbon dioxide (CO2).
Bee stings are acidic, while wasp stings are alkaline.

Sometimes, hot water freezes more quickly than cold water
Many radioactive elements actually glow in the dark.
Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, physics, and math to solve problems that involve the use of fuel, drugs, food, and many other products.
Chemical engineers work mostly in offices or laboratories. They may spend time at industrial plants, refineries, and other locations, where they monitor or direct operations or solve onsite problems. Nearly all chemical engineers work full time.
Chemical engineers must have a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering or a related field. Employers also value practical experience. Therefore, internships and cooperative engineering programs can be helpful.
Initially, Chemical Engineering graduates will start the job with calculating mass and energy balances within the process of a certain factory.
At this stage, the engineer is able find out the production capacity, the amount of raw materials required, up to the number of products made.
Chemical engineering is all about turning raw materials into useful, everyday products.
The clothes we wear, the food and drink we consume and the energy we use all depend upon chemical engineering. 
Chemical engineers work out the processes to make all these products, while also helping to manage the world's resources, protect the environment and ensure health and safety standards are met.
There is no typical first job for a graduate, although careers in the energy, water, food and pharmaceutical sectors are all commonplace.
Most chemical engineers work towards attaining chartered status.
If you're thinking about a career in chemical engineering, you'll need to be good at maths. 
Don't be misled by the chemical bit of the title – maths and science are actually more important. 
The most common A-levels studied by chemical engineering students are maths, physics and chemistry.
So if you're analytical and enjoy solving problems, chemical engineering could be the career for you.
ome universities offer a broad range of additional options such as energy, biotechnology, business management and foreign languages, in conjunction with the core compulsory subjects.
They have all the basic engineering training in mathematics and physics as well as an in-depth mastery of chemistry and biology.
Why is this so useful? Because they can transform raw materials into useful products that we can all use, such as clothes, food, drink, and energy.
A chemical engineer influences various areas of technology by thinking of and designing processes for producing, transforming, and transporting materials.
Before a chemical engineer brings these materials to full scale production, there is plenty of experimentation in the laboratory.
Many chemical engineers work in manufacturing, designing machines and plants. It is their job to ensure that the processes run smoothly and in the most economical manner possible. 
Chemical engineers are behind the creations and manufacturing of a wide range of products, such as plastics, paper, dyes, medicines, polymers, fertilizers, petrochemicals, and even many foods.
Energy and oil industries have always needed chemical engineers, but other job opportunities are growing even more. 
The demand for increased energy efficient and alternative energy sources is keeping chemical engineers with plenty of work to do.
Another growing field for chemical engineers is environmental engineering.
Whether they are working on ways to clean up or prevent pollution, safely dispose of toxic waste, or manage a sewage treatment plant, there is no shortage of opportunities for a chemical engineer to work in environmental science. 
In fact, many companies hire chemical engineers to fill their positions in environmental engineering.
Chemical engineers have distinct personalities. 
They tend to be investigative individuals, which means they’re intellectual, introspective, and inquisitive.
They are curious, methodical, rational, analytical, and logical.
Engineers interact with a range of disciplines (e.g., operators, managers, scientists, customers), present findings to management, and manage projects. 
As a chemical engineer, you will likely find yourself at some point in your career leading team meetings, mentoring junior associates, negotiating with vendors, participating in brainstorming sessions, and summarizing your experiments or trials in reports. 
Basically everything from basic mathematics to advanced mathematics.
Being an engineering discipline one cannot get away from mathematics. 
Chemical Engineering deals with very complex situations (may it be Heat transfer, Mass Transfer, Fluid flow operations, Chemical Reaction Engineering etc.) Numerical Methods, Partial differential equations, integration forms a integral part of the solution.
Yes Chemical Engineering requires you to know Mathematics.
chemical engineering problem consists of lot of variables to solve,because there are lot of concentration variables coming from various types of reactants in the problem, most of the time you have to solve n dimensional problems, and interesting thing is 90% of reaction engineering problems can be solved by using first order differential equations, as the reaction rate is always be written as dx/dt.
Chemical engineers turn raw materials into useful product.
They play a critical role in all goods that are manufactured on a large scale, from chemicals, fuels, fertilizers, foods, pharmaceuticals, biologicals, medical devices, surgical tools, personal protective equipment, to packaging materials, cars, trucks and ships, electronic devices, appliances, clothing, furniture, buildings, clean water and energy. 
As a result, chemical engineers have well-paying, crisis-proof jobs with great location flexibility as they are always needed all over the world. 
Chemical engineers improve our well-being by enabling the manufacturing of goods on a large scale, making the processes to do so more sustainable, and providing a healthier, cleaner world.
The development of smaller, faster computer chips, innovations in recycling, treating disease, cleaning water and generating energy are all processes that chemical engineers have helped create and make more efficient.
Chemical engineers work on safer, more powerful batteries to boost the mileage of electric cars. 
They design pipelines that convey chemicals over distances ranging from tens to thousands of meters. 
They develop successor technologies and new materials that turn climate-damaging carbon dioxide into useful chemicals.
They create polymers for use as plastics, rubber, vinyl siding, pipes, personal protective equipment to keep health-care workers safe, and myriad other items of everyday life. 
They simulate blood flow through arteries to predict and prevent stroke. 
They harness their knowledge, skills, and expertise to create sustainable solutions that can protect and improve our environment.
Chemical engineering is central to all manufacturing, from the traditional chemical, energy and oil industries to biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, food production, electronic materials and device fabrication, and environmental engineering. 
Chemical Engineers develop, design and oversee processes that produce, transform, and transport chemicals, biochemicals, materials and energy. The unique training and expertise of chemical engineers is essential to modern technologies
Many chemical engineers work in manufacturing, designing machines and plants, and ensuring that the processes run smoothly and in the most economical manner possible. They design processes and equipment for large-scale manufacturing, plan and test production methods and byproducts treatment, and direct facility operations of a wide range of products, such as plastics, paper, dyes, pharmaceuticals, polymers, fertilizers, petrochemicals, and many foods. 