Computer science majors are strong logical thinkers and problem solvers who use computers and computational processes to build websites, mine data and more.
Students in a computer science major enter the dynamic world of technology, studying topics like artificial intelligence, software design and computer graphics.
By the time majors complete their degrees, they will have the skills to examine complex problems with computer tools.
Computer science majors may go on to master’s or doctorate programs in the field, and they can work in research and industry.
Students will gain experience with the theory and practice of computer science as they explore algorithms, programming languages and operating systems, for example.
In classes, majors may apply their learning to topics like computational finance, robotics and network security.
Computer science majors must study calculus to earn their degrees, and other relevant math courses include statistics and linear algebra.
Introductory computer science classes cover topics like algorithm design, computer organization and abstract data types.
After students develop a strong foundation in the major, they can move on to more complicated courses related to data visualization, neural networks and cryptography, among other subjects.
Strong logical thinkers excited by the idea of entering a challenging field might think about majoring in computer science.
Career paths in the field span industries from fashion to information technology, with jobs available in data science, software engineering, application development and more.
If you’re an adaptable problem solver, or hope to become one, you may want to consider courses in computer science.
With so many possible landing places, you can likely find your niche. A major in computer science can open positions in data analytics, web development and consulting, for example, and jobs are available at companies ranging in size from small startups to large corporations.
In a nutshell, computer science degrees deal with the theoretical foundations of information and computation, taking a scientific and practical approach to computation and its applications.
The study of computer science involves systematically studying methodical processes (such as algorithms) in order to aid the acquisition, representation, processing, storage, communication of, and access to information.
In computer science, the term ‘information’ refers usually to information which is encoded in bits and bytes in computer memory.
Entry requirements for computer science degrees usually emphasize further mathematics, with some institutions asking for a background in physics.
However, it is recommended that you pick up a programming language, to gain an understanding of what is involved. While generally accepted beginner languages include Python and C++, Haskell, Java and Pascal are all languages you may come across during your studies.
On the other hand, you may find some institutions discourage students from learning programming beforehand to avoid students learning ‘bad’ programming habits early on.
Some institutions offer joint courses, in which computer science is studied alongside subjects such as mathematics, engineering and computing.
A program that focuses on computer theory, computing problems and solutions, and the design of computer systems and user interfaces from a scientific perspective.
A degree in computer science trains learners in programming languages, software development, and network architecture, preparing them for a variety of careers working with technology.
Thanks to advances in data science and artificial intelligence, computer science and related job opportunities have come a long way.
With a computer science degree, graduates can work as information security analysts, software developers, and machine-learning specialists.
Computer science majors study computer systems, design software, and solve problems using computing technologies.
The discipline encompasses programming languages, computer networks, cybersecurity, database management, artificial intelligence, and machine learning.
Every modern industry relies on computer science specialists to manage critical technology needs.
In addition to degree-granting programs, learners can also earn a certificate in computer science or attend a coding bootcamp.
Associate programs incorporate courses in programming languages, computer systems, and databases, as well as classes in statistics, algebra, web development, and operating systems.
A bachelor's degree in computer science trains undergraduates in computer programming, database management, and software development. In addition to courses within the computer science major, degree-seekers strengthen their problem-solving and critical thinking skills through general education requirements in the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences.
A master's degree in computer science provides advanced training in software engineering, data analytics, and computer systems.
Master's students often complete required courses in algorithms, programming, and software architecture.
Many programs also offer electives in areas like artificial intelligence, software management, and mobile computing to train learners for specialized career paths.
A joint MBA/MS in computer science blends business and computer science training at the graduate level.
During a doctoral program, computer science candidates complete core courses and classes in a specialization area, like artificial intelligence, human-computer interactions, or machine learning.
With a computer science degree, graduates can work as software developers, web developers, information security analysts, data scientists, and computer scientists.
Many industries rely on computer science majors, including the technology sector, government, healthcare, and the communications sector.
The technology industry employs computer science majors as computer and information research scientists, software developers, database administrators, and information security analysts.
Government agencies like the FBI, the IRS, and the Census Bureau all hire computer science professionals to prevent cyberattacks, design software programs to analyze data, and maintain computer systems and networks.
The healthcare industry relies on computer science professionals to analyze data, design secure systems to store medical data, and manage computer systems. In healthcare, computer science majors work as systems analysts, software developers, and healthcare informatics analysts.
Computer science professions pay above-average salaries, and many careers offer faster-than-average projected job growth.
Computer science is an ideal choice for students who enjoy math and problem-solving.
Majoring in this field can lead to lucrative careers that will remain in high demand.
Nearly every industry uses technology to conduct business, which means they require educated professionals who can develop software, design websites, and manage databases.
These days, majoring in computer science can open the door to an array of high-paying fields, such as software engineering, web development, information technology, and network systems administration.
Due to the substantial demand for these highly skilled professionals, many companies are struggling to fill positions.
While its value is evident, a computer science degree isn't the right choice for everyone, as it requires rigorous math courses and a propensity for both analysis and problem-solving.
Regardless of your exact goals and background, a bachelor's degree in computer science remains the industry standard and can help to launch a career that is both personally and financially rewarding.
Computer science graduates earn some of the highest starting salaries of any major.
Most computer science courses heavily emphasize theory, so if you're not interested in abstract thinking, you probably won't enjoy a computer science program.
Students who are further along in their knowledge of computer systems may consider a concentration that focuses on practical application, such as software engineering.
To succeed in computer science, you need to feel comfortable working with technology.
Students considering a computer science major should prepare to take several statistics and analysis courses, as computing concepts have mathematical foundations.
Like any area of study, a computer science major requires dedication to learning and mastering the concepts.
If you have little to no experience working with computers, you may have to overcome a steep learning curve.
Computer science is generally considered a difficult and competitive major.
A degree in computer science can lead to roles in a variety of industries outside big tech, such as healthcare, postsecondary education, telecommunications, and business.
Additionally, computer science graduates held the second-highest starting salary projection in 2019 at around $67,000.
These high salary outlooks are primarily driven by a surge in employer demand, which far exceeds the number of computer science graduates entering the workforce.
As companies struggle to find specialized workers, computer scientists will likely continue to enjoy strong salary prospects.
Data scientists are responsible for maintaining collections of data.
Duties vary by industry type but typically include creating and preserving databases for analytical processes.
Software engineers design and maintain computer software to meet company needs
Additionally, software engineers are responsible for testing code to ensure system functionality.
Database administrators maintain and organize company datasets.
They may also be responsible for issues related to configuration, security, and data backup and recovery.
Information Technology specialists provide tech support to users in their organization and assist with network connectivity issues, hardware and software components, and general troubleshooting.
Full-stack developers ensure functionality on both the front and back ends of a website.
They are typically proficient in multiple programming languages and are heavily involved in the strategic planning for any given project.
Web developers use coding languages to create and design websites, focusing on either the front or back end, depending on company needs.
As technology continues to evolve in the workplace, demand for employees who excel at working with computer systems should grow accordingly.
While there are concerns over artificial intelligence (AI) eventually automating some of these occupations, specifically basic coding jobs, programming experts remain skeptical.
Students who possess an aptitude for math and science will likely find a career in the computer science industry extremely rewarding.
If, however, you're apathetic toward computer systems or struggle with math and technology, this degree may not be a good fit for you.
From creating computer games to programming technology for the CIA or building the next Facebook, there are a lot of amazing things you can do with a computer science degree.
Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg, Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and even comedian Jimmy Fallon all got their start by studying computer science.
A computer science major involves the study of computers and programming languages.
Majoring in this field will help you develop great technical skills and give you a new perspective on problem-solving.
You’ll learn how to break problems apart and execute them effectively.
This means that new technologies and software should excite you and you should be comfortable throwing out what you currently know to learn something new.
the latest technologies excite me
like to create tools that increase productivity
enjoy learning languages to communicate with computers
In addition to being an exciting field, computer science is also quite profitable
An established programmer with four to five years of experience can expect to earn anywhere from $100,000 to $120,000 per year.
These systems include workstations, computer clusters, GPU clusters, and local file servers.
Servers and workstations running Linux , MacOS, or various versions of Windows are commonplace.
After learning the essential programming techniques and the mathematical foundations of computer science, students take courses in areas such as programming techniques, automata and complexity theory, systems programming, computer architecture, analysis of algorithms, artificial intelligence, and applications.
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering.
Understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
Maybe you have always liked to solve problems or decipher codes.
Perhaps you have a knack for learning new languages, or maybe you were so intrigued with your computer that you ripped off the cover and started to tinker with the inner workings.
Computer science majors need to be able to think analytically in order to devise systems and programs, but must also be sufficiently detail-oriented to troubleshoot problems.
Creativity is essential for those computer science majors who hope to come up with the latest app or technology gadget.
Given the rapid rate of change within technology, computer science majors need to have a thirst for learning to keep up with the latest developments.
Computer science majors must also be curious about the world around them, since programs and systems apply to every possible area of life and commerce.
Software developers create software programs that allow users to perform specific tasks on various devices, such as computers or mobile devices.
They are responsible for the entire development, testing, and maintenance of software.
Software developers must have the technical creativity required to solve problems uniquely.
Database administrators analyze and evaluate the data needs of users.
They develop and improve the data resources used to store and retrieve critical information.
They need the problem-solving skills of the computer science major to correct any malfunctions in databases and to modify systems in line with the evolving needs of users.
Computer hardware engineers are responsible for designing, developing, and testing computer components, such as circuit boards, routers, and memory devices.
Computer hardware engineers need a combination of creativity and technical expertise.
Computer hardware engineers must have the perseverance to perform comprehensive tests of systems, again and again, to ensure the hardware is functioning as it should.
Computer systems analysts assess an organization's computer systems and recommend changes to hardware and software to enhance the company's efficiency.
Computer network architects design, implement, and maintain networking and data communication systems, including local area networks, wide area networks, extranets, and intranets.
Computer network architects also evaluate the products and services available in the marketplace.
Computer network architects need to have the analytical skills to evaluate computer networks.
Computer network architects test systems before they are implemented and resolve problems as they occur after the setup is in place.
Web developers assess the needs of users for information-based resources.
They create the technical structure for websites and make sure that web pages are accessible and easily downloadable through a variety of browsers and interfaces.
Web developers structure sites to maximize the number of page views and visitors through search engine optimization.
Information security analysts create systems to protect information networks and websites from cyberattacks and other security breaches.
Their responsibilities also include researching trends in data security to anticipate problems and install systems to prevent issues before they occur.
Security analysts also need strong problem-solving skills to investigate breaches, determine the causes, and modify or repair security systems.
Computer and information research scientists invent technology that solves complex problems in fields like science, medicine, and business. They also find new uses for existing technology that accomplishes the same goals.
Computer and information research scientists write algorithms that are used to detect and analyze patterns in very large datasets.
Computer and information systems managers analyze a company's technology needs and oversee the implementation of appropriate data systems.
Project managers in the IT sector coordinate the efforts of a team of programmers/developers and analysts to complete projects.
Strong communication skills are required to decipher the needs of users and convey technical specifications to developers.
According to PayScale, project managers earn an average annual income of $88,896.
The field of computer science focuses on the study of software systems, and a degree in the discipline allows someone to pursue a variety of careers.
Instead, the increasing use of technology throughout the business world means that companies in many industries are hiring grads of computer science programs.
Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics also shows that some careers common among computer science degree-holders frequently lead to six-figure salaries.
Sam Gavis-Hughson, the CEO and founder of Byte by Byte, a company that helps aspiring software engineers prepare for job interviews at prestigious tech corporations like Amazon and Facebook, says people who lack a genuine interest in technology should not pursue a computer science degree simply because of the allure of high salaries.
He says programming is only fun for people who have a knack for problem-solving, adding, "Not everyone has that really analytical sort of mind."
"One of the greatest things about a (computer science) degree is that it allows you to work in whatever industry you desire," he wrote in an email.
For example, you could do software development and work for Warby Parker and be in fashion, or work for Google doing (artificial intelligence) type projects.
Sherman says an education in computer science can not only provide people with the training necessary to invent new technologies, but it can also allow them to identify potential improvements for current technologies.
It's useful to develop a personal portfolio of your own projects, such as those involving programming, building a website or carrying out tasks online as a moderator
Joining a university club or society that gives you the opportunity to develop your computing, web design or multimedia skills also helps when applying for graduate jobs.
Common employers are IT consultancies and IT service providers.
Network engineers, sometimes referred to as computer network architects, design, build, and operate computer network hardware, software, and servers.
Although these engineers mainly plan networks, they might also perform job tasks like deciding which types of hardware are needed to support a network, designing the layout for data communication networks, and determining what types of security the network needs.
Network engineers need analytical, customer-service, organization, leadership and problem-solving skills, as well as attention to detail and an ability to work in teams.
They also need familiarity with field-specific software, such as administration, network monitoring, network security and configuration management software, and an ability to use related tools, such as network analyzers and network switches.
Some programs might offer a concentration in network security.
Network administrators might determine what type of network an organization needs, install network components and manage a network's operation.
To earn the Cisco Certified Architect credential, an individual must possess the Cisco Certified Design Expert certification and defend a proposed network solution before a panel.
Network engineers, also known as network administrators, work as part of a company's IT department.
They are responsible for making sure that their company's computer systems and network hardware are running efficiently.
They do this by installing new hardware, running diagnostics and completing routine software updates as they become available.
They are also expected to take preemptive measures to protect against malware and other potential threats to network security.
Microsoft, Cisco, Citrix, CompTIA, VMware and Red Hat all offer network engineer training and certifications. Here are some of the more highly desirable network engineer certifications:
Roles range from cloud and security specializations, such as a network security specialist or cloud networking architect, to wireless and VoIP concentrations as a wireless networking quality assurance or VoIP engineer.
Network engineers (also called network architects) plan, construct and manage networks to ensure they’re optimized and functioning as intended.
Clients and servers: How email, websites and pages connect using networks
IP addresses: Unique identification codes for network devices that control the flow of data
Network hubs, cables and switches: The hardware building blocks of any network
Firewalls and routers: Tools that organize and control network traffic flow
Once you’ve got the basic IT skills down, look for more relevant networking positions.
Technical ability isn’t enough for a successful engineering career.
Cyber security professionals, or information security analysts, have a wide range of responsibilities, but the crux of their job is to protect online data form being compromised.
Cyber security careers are complex and many roles can be found with banks, retailers and government organizations.
It’s important to note that a cybersecurity salary can vary depending on a variety of factors including the size and scope of the employer, geographic location and a candidate’s experience.
From network security to an incident responder or an ethical hacker, an IT security manager may be tasked with anything from installing, administering and troubleshooting security solutions to writing up security policies and training documents for colleagues.
It’s easy to assume that a top skill set recommended for any of these job titles would contain the word “security.”
New high-profile cyber attacks seem to constantly flood news headlines, so it’s no wonder that cybersecurity experts are becoming such an important and in-demand position for all types of firms.
While a career in cybersecurity can be stressful, it’s also extremely rewarding.
The responsibilities of a cybersecurity professional may vary, but the role can be simplified into one function: protect a company’s data from being compromised by an attack.
cybersecurity experts to find out what inspired them to pursue a career in data protection.
Finding the right career path in the cybersecurity industry isn’t always easy.
Security engineers are becoming increasingly hard to find and expensive to hire. By 2021, there could be an estimated 3.5 million vacant positions in the industry.
Think you have what it takes to become the next data-protecting cybersecurity expert?
Becoming a well-rounded cybersecurity professional requires having well-rounded experience.
cybersecurity focuses on protecting organizations from digital attacks and keeping their information and networks safe.
Cybersecurity experts detect vulnerabilities, recommend software and hardware programs that can mitigate risks, and develop policies and procedures for maintaining security.
otential jobs include information security analyst, chief information security officer, security architect, and security engineer.
The most popular industries that employ cybersecurity professionals include computer systems design and related services; management of companies and enterprises; credit intermediation and related activities; and management, scientific, and technical consulting services.
This guide describes the types of careers available to cybersecurity professionals, including potential salaries, job duties, and the best cities and industries to pursue cybersecurity jobs.
Depending on context, "mobile engineer" may not involve development
mobile networks employ mobile engineers whose job is monitoring and improving coverage and performance, debugging problems and testing new handsets for compatibility and reliability, as well as installing and maintaining the network infrastructure.
A Mobile Engineer can be any Software Developer who builds and programs applications for mobile devices.
This term is general and can be applied to web programmers who use distribution platforms to compile their code and then becomes available on mobile phones.
An Android or iOS Developer is a specific term for a ‘native’ programmer who only build android apps using java and the core SDK designed for the android ecosystem.
I have such a passion for Google’s mobile operating system that I worked my way to a job where I get to play with Android all day, and share my experiences with you, our faithful readers.
All joking aside, Android and iOS are the clear leaders in mobile operating systems around the globe, and the idea for each is to provide the fastest, smoothest and most robust performance and features as possible.
Mobile applications are similar to desktop software in that you can design them using different programming languages and frameworks.
In this job, you’ll come up with the concepts that eventually become video games.
As a software developer and computer programmer, you’ll turn the games designer’s vision into a playable and controllable game.
The more technical side of games design, you’ll use programming languages and ‘engines’ to enhance game play.
If you’ve ever wondered while you’re at your gaming console, what it would be like to get off the couch and delve into a career in gaming, you’ve come to the right place.
Game development is the process of making video games.
A game developer carries out the programming involved in producing a video game.
They’re also called programmers. While designers come up with the concept, developers transform these concepts into an actual, playable product through computer code.
‘Game designer’ and ‘game developer’ may sound similar, but for those who are considering a career in the fields, the terms are poles apart.
Game designers put many skills to use from graphic design to programming and even art and animation.
Game developers are essentially, programmers.
They focus more on the technical aspects of the game.
They have a thorough understanding of a variety of programming languages such as Lua, Perl, C++, and more.
If you think you’re a coding whiz or want to be one, then the role of a developer is the right one for you.
To succeed as a game developer, you need to anchor your knowledge in software programming and design.
Game developers have to overcome challenges and resolve technical glitches nearly every single day.
2D/3D Game developer
The salary of a game developer varies based on several intangible factors like the person’s experience, skill, talent, market conditions, and more.
Technology moves at lightning speed, and sometimes in unexpected directions.
Game development is nothing without innovation.
The process of creating a video game is a complicated thing.
Ubisoft, EA, Blizzard and such video games company will hire.
Students in a computer science major enter the dynamic world of technology, studying topics like artificial intelligence, software design and computer graphics. 
By the time majors complete their degrees, they will have the skills to examine complex problems with computer tools.
Computer science is a major for problem solvers who want to learn how to use computers and computational processes to build websites, program robots, mine data and more.
Students will gain experience with the theory and practice of computer science as they explore algorithms, programming languages and operating systems, for example.
In classes, majors may apply their learning to topics like computational finance, robotics and network security.
Undergraduates may also be able to access research opportunities.
Common Coursework Computer Science Majors Can Expect
Computer science majors must study calculus to earn their degrees, and other relevant math courses include statistics and linear algebra.
Introductory computer science classes cover topics like algorithm design, computer organization and abstract data types. 
Programming is the process of creating a set of instructions that tell a computer how to perform a task.
Programming can be done using a variety of computer programming languages, such as JavaScript, Python, and C++.
Tasks accompanying and related to programming include: testing, debugging, source code maintenance, implementation of build systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as the machine code of computer programs. 
These might be considered part of the programming process, but often the term software development is used for this larger process with the term programming, implementation, or coding reserved for the actual writing of code.
Software engineering combines engineering techniques with software development practices. Reverse engineering is a related process used by designers, analysts and programmers to understand and re-create/re-implement.
This school year, teachers at five middle and high school sites have provided Saturday remote learning sessions to support the targeted students in learning how to create artificial intelligence (AI) voice-enabled chatbots using a project-based approach to solve culturally-relevant problems in student homes, schools, and communities. 
The project has also provided teacher professional development in IBM Watson’s AI voice assistant (chatbot), artificial intelligence, special education strategies, universal design, and project-based learning.
The project has also provided teacher professional development in IBM Watson’s AI voice assistant (chatbot), artificial intelligence, special education strategies, universal design, and project-based learning.
The discipline of computer science includes the study of algorithms and data structures, computer and network design, modeling data and information processes, and artificial intelligence.
Computer science draws some of its foundations from mathematics and engineering and therefore incorporates techniques from areas such as queueing theory, probability and statistics, and electronic circuit design.
Computer science also makes heavy use of hypothesis testing and experimentation during the conceptualization, design, measurement, and refinement of new algorithms, information structures, and computer architectures.
Computer science is considered as part of a family of five separate yet interrelated disciplines: computer engineering, computer science, information systems, information technology, and software engineering.
The major subfields of computer science include the traditional study of computer architecture, programming languages, and software development.
The roots of computer science lie primarily in the related fields of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and management information systems.
Mathemathics is the source of two key concepts in the development of the computer—the idea that all information can be represented as sequences of zeros and ones and the abstract notion of a “stored program.”
In the binary number system, numbers are represented by a sequence of the binary digits 0 and 1 in the same way that numbers in the familiar decimal system are represented using the digits 0 through 9. 
The Boolean algebra developed in the 19th century supplied a formalism for designing a circuit with binary input values of zeros and ones [false or true, respectively, in the terminology of logic] to yield any desired combination of zeros and ones as output.
The invention of the transistor and the miniaturization of circuits, along with the invention of electronic, magnetic, and optical media for the storage and transmission of information, resulted from advances in electrical engineering and physics.
Management information systems, originally called data processing systems, provided early ideas from which various computer science concepts such as sorting, searching, databases, information retrieval, and graphical user interfaces evolved.
The path to earning a college degree in computer science can begin in high school. Some institutions offer classes in basic programming principles, and physics and mathematics classes are beneficial as well.
develop iOS, Android, web applications, and e-commerce.
Web development gives you the opportunity to express yourself creatively on the internet.
challenging career centered on creative problem-solving and continuous innovation.
The technology industry moves quickly, and web developers are constantly learning and advancing in their careers.
Coding allows you to take all the ideas that you have in your head and make them come to life.
Web developers are a crucial part of a company’s success.
Programming is perfect for those who like to be organized and detailed oriented.
Web development combines creativity and analytical skills perfectly.
Organisations are willing to pay high salaries to attract the best developers.
JavaScript, CSS or HTML a career in web development allows you to focus on areas you enjoy
You'll be able to create first-class user experiences and charming websites
Freelance developers enjoy higher wages and more creative freedom.
Programming is the process of taking an algorithm and encoding it into a notation, a programming language, so that it can be executed by a computer.
Algorithms when used, helps you accomplish your tasks efficiently.
Algorithmic thinking, or the ability to define clear steps to solve a problem, is crucial in many different fields.
we use algorithms and algorithmic thinking all the time.
Algorithmic thinking allows students to break down problems and conceptualize solutions in terms of discrete steps.
Algorithms are used for calculation, data processing, and automated reasoning.
Uses for machine learning include data mining and pattern recognition.
Algorithms can make systems smarter
Data scientist, Software tester, Web developer, Systems analyst, Business analyst, Product manager, Network architect, Software engineer, Software developer, Full-stack developer, Engineering manager, User interface designer, Database administrator, Cloud computing engineer, Information security analyst, Computer science professor, Chief information security officer, Software quality assurance manager, Information technology specialist, Mobile application designer or developer, Research and development (R&D) scientist, Computer scientist or computer science researcher, Artificial intelligence and machine learning engineer