The beginning of the period is defined by the most recent reversal of Earth’s magnetic field, called the Brunhes-Matuyama reversal.
Signs of the Brunhes-Matuyama reversal, which was named for pioneers in the research of Earth’s magnetic field, can be found around the world
In that section in Chiba, you have one of the best records of the reversal interval of anywhere in the world,” geologist and IUGS secretary general Stanley Finney tells Tim Hornyak at Eos
The Chiba cliffs, located near the city of Ichihara southeast of Tokyo, are home to a sedimentary deposit called the Kazusa Group, which is nearly two miles of rock layers made of compressed silt and clay that were once under the ocean.
Volcanic ash in the layers indicates its age is about 770,000 years old. As Erin Blakemore writes for the Washington Post, when the rock was molten, minerals with iron suspended in the molten soup pointed in the direction of Earth’s magnetic field
When the rock solidified, it trapped the iron-containing minerals in whatever direction they were pointing at the time.
Scientists today can look at the captured iron like a time capsule that indicates the history of Earth’s magnetic field.
The magnetic field protects Earth’s surface from the radiation of outer space, and as it shifts, that protection becomes weaker.
Because Earth’s geological activity tends to squash older rocks that would hold the captured iron, finding trapped iron is challenging.
That’s what makes the Chiba cliffs special: they hold clear signals of changing polarity and an abundance of microscopic marine fossils, as Makoto Okada, a paleomagnetic expert at Ibaraki University, tells Eos.
Four remote volcanoes are active in the archipelago jutting from the 49th state, which is part of the “ring of fire” where the Pacific tectonic plate meets several others.
Three of the volcanoes are erupting or spewing steam and ash while the fourth is exhibiting elevated surface temperatures, according to the Alaska Volcano Observatory (AVO), a joint program by the United States Geological Survey, Geophysical Institute of the University of Alaska, Fairbanks and Alaska Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys.
Scientists set the threat level to “orange,” indicating eruptions are underway, for the Great Sitkin, Pavlof and Semisopochnoi volcanoes, reports Mark Thiessen of the Associated Press
Currently, Cleveland is “yellow” because of signs of unrest. All four are located in remote sections of the Aleutians.
 Episodic low-level ash emissions and minor explosions have been detected by a webcam set up on the summit of the 8,261-foot stratovolcano, which is usually covered in snow and ice.
The other three volcanoes are located on islands further along the archipelago separating the Bering Sea and North Pacific Ocean.
the tiny, rocky, sparsely populated Norwegian island of Smøla, which had been sealed off from the outside world for three months, reopened its one point of access, a ferry terminal that connects it to the coastal cities of Trondheim and Kristiansund.
It also gladdened tourists and adventurers, particularly those with an interest in the fabled land of Thule, also known as ultima Thule, whose exact location in the world has been debated for over two millennia.
Over the years, Iceland, Greenland, the Shetland Islands, the Faroe Islands, Saaremaa (an Estonian island), and islands along the north coast of Norway have all been viewed as contenders.
The large dust cloud has already obscured skies in the Caribbean and will likely reach Gulf Coast states by the middle of this week
an enormous plume of dust from the Saharan desert has blown 5,000 miles across the Atlantic Ocean and will likely reach the Gulf Coast by the middle of this week, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
every year, winds carry about 800 million metric tons of dust from North Africa across the Atlantic coast, a phenomenon known as the Saharan Air Layer, according to a statement from NASA’s Earth Observatory. 
The plume is clearly visible from space.
Every so often, when the dust plume is large enough and trade winds set up just right, the dust can travel thousands of miles across the Atlantic and into the US.
In the Caribbean, residents have already started to witness darkened, murky skies and “hazardous” air quality, Dánica Coto reports for the Associated Press.
While the dust particles might soften the blue of the sky during the day, they will also likely make for spectacular sunsets.
Due to more sunlight being scattered by the dust particles, there will likely be more vibrant sunsets and sunrises of the orange and red side of the visible light spectrum
The dry, dusty wind could also potentially suppress tropical cyclones by lowering humidity levels and limiting the formation of clouds
This unusually large plume of dust could impact this season’s storms, although it’s still early in hurricane season, which typically runs June 1 through November 30.
An increase in small particles in the air might also trigger dust-related allergies for those exposed, according to Mauldin for CNN
Beaches in Florida and Thailand have tentatively reported increases in nests, due to decreased human presence
Every spring, Florida’s shoreline welcomes a swath of seaworthy visitors: female leatherback turtles, crawling ashore to swaddle their eggs in the sand.
The Colorado River, called the “Lifeline of the Southwest,” is at risk of withering as climate change drives temperatures up, according to new research published on Thursday in the journal Science.
The Colorado River is fed by snowpack that builds up throughout the winter and melts slowly until mid-spring.
The researchers predict that if greenhouse gas emissions continue at their current pace, the river could see a 19 to 31 percent drop in water flow by the middle of the 21st century
Geologists have seen hints of the continent, dubbed Greater Adria, for years.
The Mediterranean region is quite simply a geological mess
The story that the rocks tell begins on the supercontinent Gondwana, which would eventually split into Africa, South America, Australia, Antarctica and India.
Greater Adria broke away from the mother continent about 240 million years ago, beginning a slow drift northward. Roughly 140 million years ago, it was about the size of Greenland, mostly submerged in a tropical sea, collecting sediment that hardened into rock.
Then, roughly 100 to 120 million years ago, it hit the southern edge of future Europe, spinning counterclockwise and moving at about 3 to 4 centimeters per year.
It hit several subduction zones, or areas where tectonic plates meet.
In this case, the Greater Adria plate was trumped by the European plate, and most of it dove down into Earth’s mantle.
The overlying plate scraped the top layers of Great Adria off.
That debris eventually formed mountain ranges in Italy, Turkey, Greece, the Balkans and in the Alps.
A few bits of Greater Adria escaped the plunge into the mantle and still exist in Italy and Croatia.
They also spent time constructing the continent’s history by examining the orientation of tiny magnetic minerals created by bacteria trapped in the Adria rocks
From that data they were able to understand how much the rock layers rotated over time
They also pieced together structures like strings of volcanoes and coral reefs. 
After a period of losing 66 feet of ice per year, the Jakobshavn Glacier is growing again—but that doesn’t mean glaciers aren’t in trouble
During the 2000s, the Jakobshavn was the fastest flowing glacier on Greenland, moving at about 10.5 miles per year, reports the BBC’s Jonathan Amos
Satellite data showed that the front end of the massive ice river retreated by about 66 feet per year during that time.
The glacier, which spills into Disko Bay, is one of the major pathways for ice from Greenland’s ice sheet the largest in the world behind Antarctica to enter the ocean and cause sea level rise.
Snowfall is not keeping up the amount of ice lost by the glacier, meaning that over the long term, the glacier is still shrinking.
What this all means for sea-level rise, however, is complicated. The Jakobshavn Glacier drains just 7 percent of Greenland’s ice, reports Cockburn, and thinning and melting are still occurring all over the island.
The rate of sea-level contribution from Greenland has slowed in recent years and it’s because some of the biggest ice evacuators like Jakobshavn aren’t contributing as much as they used to
But when Kami Rita Sherpa took in the gaze from the summit at 29,035 feet above sea level yesterday morning, it was a familiar scene. That’s because the climber had reached the summit a record 23 times before, including topping the peak just days before.
Now, the nation of Nepal is sending its own team up the mountain to conduct several different survey methods on the world’s tallest mountain in the hopes of arriving at a definitive height and to see if a major 2015 earthquake took the mountain down a peg or two.
Jonathan Carey at Atlas Obscura reports that after the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the Himalayas in April 2015, it reshaped some parts of the mountain range.
Satellites showed that areas of ground around Kathmandu were lifted, while the height of the mountains in the Langtang region of the Himalayas dropped over 3 feet.
The data also showed that Everest had dropped about an inch
Geospatial representation and analysis uses geographic information systems, or GIS, to map, visualize or store information about different spaces
Geography and cartography majors study the intersection of humans and the environment through the social sciences, humanities and natural sciences. 
That includes exploring built and natural environments over time and understanding human activity within them.
Geography majors learn how the environment and humans interact and affect one another. 
This broad major can be understood through areas including physical geography, human geography, and geospatial representation and analysis.
Physical geography explores the interconnected components of the environment through the traditional sciences.
Human geography examines the interactions between humans and nature, and the reasons and methods for humans organizing into societies.
Related disciplines like cartography, which focuses on the art and science of mapmaking, come from this area of study
Early coursework for geography majors includes an introduction to earth system sciences, exploring topics like the atmosphere, as well as an introduction to human geography topics like culture, politics and globalization.
Students who enjoy learning about the environment, digital maps and discovering hidden connections should consider a geography major.
Successful students often have a strong interest in the social sciences and love to think critically about global challenges and threats like climate change.
If you’re interested in working with new tools and gathering information to paint broad pictures of people and places, 
Carey reports that, in the 1950s a century after the original survey, an Indian team measured Everest at 29,029 feet, which still considered its official height
Majoring in geography prepares students for careers in public and private arenas
Geography majors learn about the physical features of the earth including climate, soil, and topography and how people relate to the land
Geography careers include geoscientist, geographer, and cartographer.
Geography students need excellent analytical thinking skills and attention to detail. 
geography professionals work alone, while others work as part of a team, meaning students should develop the ability to both work individually and compromise with others.
Careers for a geography major also require a deep understanding of the earth and how humans interact with it.
analyze human and physical data like census reports, survey data, and maps. 
They work with geographic information systems (GIS) to gather data, design maps, and create visual portrayals of data.
Geography students analyze information about human and physical geography, including spatial data. They look at maps, census data, and other sources to understand geography. Analytical skills, including the ability to analyze data and draw conclusions from different kinds of data, benefit geography majors after graduation.
Geography students strengthen their writing skills by completing research projects, writing persuasive papers, and creating written work for group projects or presentations. 
The concentration also analyzes factors that shape where people live and work. 
This concentration examines global trade, global finance, and public health through the lens of geography. Learners study social movements, national policies, global-local relations, and global financial reforms, connecting these broader themes to location, place, and space.
Geographers examine qualitative and quantitative information to understand the earth, its land, and the distribution of populations.
Professionals with a bachelor's in geography can pursue careers in cartography, surveying, research, and data analysis. With a master's degree, graduates can work as geographers, survey researchers, and urban planners.
Pursuing a certification or minoring in a related area like environmental science, urban planning, or public health
Geography is often defined in terms of two branches: human geography and physical geography.
Human geography is concerned with the study of people and their communities, cultures, economies, and interactions with the environment by studying their relations with and across space and place.
Physical geography is concerned with the study of processes and patterns in the natural environment like the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and geosphere.
The four historical traditions in geographical research are spatial analyses of natural and the human phenomena, area studies of places and regions, studies of human-land relationships, and the Earth sciences.
Geography has been called "the world discipline" and "the bridge between the human and the physical sciences".
Because space and place affect a variety of topics, such as economics, health, climate, plants and animals, geography is highly interdisciplinary
The interdisciplinary nature of the geographical approach depends on an attentiveness to the relationship between physical and human phenomena and its spatial patterns.
This is a description of the world that is Geography
The former largely focuses on the built environment and how humans create, view, manage, and influence space.
The latter examines the natural environment, and how organisms, climate, soil, water, and landforms produce and interact.
The difference between these approaches led to a third field, environmental geography, which combines physical and human geography and concerns the interactions between the environment and humans
Physical geography (or physiography) focuses on geography as an Earth science
It aims to understand the physical problems and the issues of lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, pedosphere, and global flora and fauna patterns (biosphere). 
Physical geography is the study of earth's seasons, climate, atmosphere, soil, streams, landforms, and oceans.
Human geography (or anthropogeography) is a branch of geography that focuses on the study of patterns and processes that shape the human society
It encompasses the human, political, cultural, social, and economic aspects.
Behavioral geography is an approach to human geography that examines human behavior using a disaggregate approach. 
Behavioral geographers focus on the cognitive processes underlying spatial reasoning, decision making, and behavior. 
behavioral geography is an ideology/approach in human geography that makes use of the methods and assumptions of behaviorism to determine the cognitive processes involved in an individual's perception of or response and reaction to their environment.
Behavioral geography is that branch of human science, which deals with the study of cognitive processes with its response to its environment, through behaviorism.
Feminist geography is a sub-discipline of human geography that applies the theories, methods, and critiques of feminism to the study of the human environment, society, and geographical space
Feminist geographers aim to incorporate positions of race, class, ability, and sexuality into the study of geography
Geosophy is a concept introduced to geography by J.K. Wright in 1947. The word is a compound of ‘geo’ (Greek for earth) and ‘sophia’ (Greek for wisdom).
Geosophy is the study of geographical knowledge from any or all points of view. It is to geography what historiography is to history; it deals with the nature and expression of geographical knowledge both past and present
Geomatic is concerned with the application of computers to the traditional spatial techniques used in cartography and topography. Geomatics emerged from the quantitative revolution in geography in the mid-1950s. Today, geomatics methods include spatial analysis, geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing, and global positioning systems (GPS).
Geography is the study of places and the relationships between people and their environments. 
Geographers explore both the physical properties of Earth’s surface and the human societies spread across it.
They also examine how human culture interacts with the natural environment and the way that locations and places can have an impact on people. 
In Greek, geo means “earth” and graphy means “to write.”
Throughout human history, most societies have sought to understand something about their place in the world, and the people and environments around them.
Park rangers patrol outdoor areas like parks, campgrounds and wildlife reserves in order to protect the natural environment and the people who visit. They may be responsible for conducting tours, keeping areas clean, enforcing rules and assisting with search and rescue missions.
A teacher who specialized in geography teaches students about the environment and the physical formations of the Earth. They may also focus on topics like climate change and environmental preservation
A surveyor measures properties to determine boundaries during the building planning process. They assist engineers, construction workers and map makers by providing accurate measurements and data.
Geospatial analysts analyze geographical data and translate it into digital formats. They process this information to determine what the key features of the land are and what changes have occurred in an area over time.
Travel writers create content for blogs, journals, newspapers and other publication about topics related to travel. Travel writers may write about a specific region, or they may travel to different countries and continents in order to write about these locations. They may write guides, profiles and reviews for hotels and attractions in different places.
Americans bearing newfangled GPS gear measured it at 29,035 feet in 1999 and another Chinese survey in 2005 found that without ice and snow on top, the mountain was only 29,017 feet.
A rainbow of tiny furrows spreads across a map of the contiguous United States, the lite-brite hues popping against a black backdrop, giving the appearance of roots or a vascular system.
Rather than art, Szucs has a background in digital cartography and geographic information system (GIS) analysis.
With a master’s in geography and GIS from the University of Szeged, Szucs has used these skills for everything from mapping orangutan movement and changes in Indonesian forest coverage to monitoring whale behavior in Alaska.
Szucs didn’t make artistic maps until a decade into his cartography career
The majority of Szucs’ maps depict expanses of land sectioned off by watersheds, the areas of land that comprise the drainage systems channeling rainwater from creeks to rivers to oceans.
The cartographer found existing river maps uninspiring, and decided to use satellite data based on digital elevation models to create his own. 
For example, on his map of the United States, the pink spider-webbing across nearly half the country represents the massive Jefferson-Mississippi-Missouri River system, which includes, of course, the parts of the Missouri and Mississippi river basins that are experiencing catastrophic flooding right now.
Watershed size and shape can control a lot of important hydrologic and biogeochemical functions of rivers
 The largest river delta to ever exist on Earth was formed during the Triassic.
Michael Marshall at New Scientist reports that the massive delta floodplain was ten times the size of the Amazon and Ganges deltas, the current largest delta floodplains on the planet
Researchers identified the delta in the Barents Sea between the north of Norway and Russia by examining core samples drilled by energy exploration companies and examining seismic data.
The delta was so large, if it were around today, at roughly 637,100 square miles, it easily covers Alaska with mileage to spare.
The flood plain was likely formed by sediments carried from mountains created when continents collided during the formation of Pangaea
 Those events, called the Variscan Orogeny and Uralian Orogeny created the mountains of Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Great Britain as well as the Ural Mountans, which extend through west central Russia
The drainage for the Triassic deltas could have been twice that of what feeds Mississippi today
The delta wasn’t just a flash in the Triassic pan.
The team estimates that it grew over the course of 2 to 5 million years, which lines up with the idea that the Triassic had a pretty steady warm climate in which sea level did not change much.
Most of the deltas currently found on Earth appeared in the last 10,000 years.
Marshall at New Scientist reports that during the Triassic, areas near the equator were likely too hot and dry to support much biodiversity
River deltas, like this one, however, were probably cradles of life, just as they are today.
The area was likely covered in lush vegetation and full of labyrinthodonts, an amphibian forerunner of many land animals
It's possible the earliest dinos and mammals also skittered across the delta's sediments.
This Map Lets You Plug in Your Address to See How It’s Changed Over the Past 750 Million Years
 Encompassing nearly all of Earth’s extant land mass, Pangea bore little resemblance to our contemporary planet.
The results are intriguing: During the Early Triassic Epoch, the National Mall in Washington, D.C., for example, was wedged almost directly adjacent to Mauritania, yet to be separated from the Northwest African country by the vast waters of the Atlantic Ocean.
According to Gizmodo’s George Dvorsky, Ancient Earth includes an array of helpful navigational features, including toggle display options related to globe rotation, lighting and cloud coverage. 
Start at the very beginning of the map’s timeline, Michele Debczak advises for Mental Floss, and you’ll see the planet evolve from “unrecognizable blobs of land” to the massive supercontinent of Pangea and, finally, the seven continents we inhabit today.
As the description on the side of the map explains, “Glaciers may have covered the entire planet during the [Cryogenian Period], the greatest ice age known on Earth.” Flash forward to 500 million years ago, Debczak adds, and New York City pops up as a tiny island in the southern hemisphere, while London, still part of Pangea, appears almost directly adjacent to the South Pole.
I'm amazed that geologists collected enough data to actually plot my home 750 [million] years ago, so I thought you all would enjoy it too,
He is quick to point out, however, that the visualizations should be considered approximate despite the fact that plate tectonic models return precise results
For two days, the canoe has bobbed gently on the opaque, mud-colored water as we approached Tangier Island, one of the famous sinking islands of the Chesapeake. 
Librarians collect and categorize library resources according to a structured system. They answer questions, locate information and issue books and other resources to people.
Landscape architects use their knowledge of design and the natural world to create outdoor spaces like parks, playground, campuses, gardens and other public places. They measure and analyze spaces and create designs using digital software.
A real estate appraiser evaluates buildings and land using knowledge of the market and geographical factors to determine value. They work with clients to appraise buildings and land that are about to be sold, leased, developed or taxed.
Geographic Information System (GIS) specialists create and maintain GIS databases in specific cities, towns or other areas. They collect analyze geospatial data, collect field data and develop maps.
geopolitical analyst researches the political systems of different geographical regions. They travel to different areas and observe current events and political and economic trends
Urban planners evaluate land and create plans for residential and public development.
Emergency managers create plans to help regions prepare for and respond to natural disasters. They collaborate with community leaders and public safety officials to keep people safe during emergencies and assist people and towns after disasters have occurred.
An environmental scientist conducts research to prevent or eliminate dangers to the environment or public health, like air or water pollution.
Cartographers are responsible for making maps. They research areas and conduct data for maps. They also use mathematical skills and computer programs to ensure the accuracy of their maps.
Environmental consultants work with companies to provide advice about their contribution to environmental issues. They help companies minimize their impact by developing guidelines for green manufacturing, proper waste disposal and sustainable energy initiatives. Environmental consultants may also advise companies on how to handle environmental disasters.
Geographers study the features and structures of the Earth to compile data that can be used for GIS and planning purposes. 
For Indonesia, 2018 has been a year characterized by natural disasters. In late September an earthquake and tsunami hit the island of Sulawesi killing almost 2,000 people, mostly in the city of Palu. A few days later, the nearby volcano Soputan erupted.
New satellite images taken of the Anak Krakatau volcano before and after the explosion suggests that the massive landslide destroyed the volcano’s entire southwest flank, reports George Dvorsky at Gizmodo.
Monitor land use to evaluate the effectiveness of land-use practices and plans.
improving water quality, managing nutrients, and protecting and improving wildlife habitats.
Soil conservationists are responsible for ensuring a health state of the soil.
The Small Isles, a gorgeous archipelago in Scotland’s Inner Hebrides, are protected as part of a National Scenic Area.
The islands of Canna and Sanday, which are only separated by a tidal channel, are now the most minutely mapped islands in the world reports the BBC, and the imaging has unlocked thousands of years of archaeology.
Developing approaches for controlling pollution
Preparing graphs, charts and reports of findings to present
Developing research models using mathematical and physics based models
Identifying and analysing sources of pollution
Collecting of data from pollution emission measurements
Designing and evaluating waste disposal sites to reduce pollution
Analysing measurements of pollution to make recommendations on how best to reduce the pollution levels.
This was an ecosystem lightly trammeled by the native peoples who lived in dispersed and shifting settlements throughout the region. They drew on the bounty of the bay itself, as well as the abundant game on land and in the air, plus a variety of farming practices.
Much has been written recently about Tangier because of the conflicts over the crabbing industry—the mainstay of the island—and because the island, like the land all around and in the bay, is sinking due to tectonic forces and losing ground as climate change-induced sea levels rise.
Researching to identify sources of pollution affecting people, wildlife and the environment
Pollution analysts work in natural and urban environments to ensure pollution levels are within standards set by UK and EU legislation.
monitoring and investigating changes in the stratosphere and ozone layer;
researching seasonal forecasting, ocean forecasting and climate prediction;
monitoring climate variability and change;
improving the accuracy of forecasts through developing and improving numerical and computer models
analysing environmental information and presenting it as weather briefings;
measuring environmental factors such as air pressure, temperature and humidity
collating data from worldwide satellite images, remote sensors and weather stations;
meteorologists study the impact of weather and climate on the environment, researching changes in weather patterns, climate change and models of weather prediction.
applying physical and mathematical relationships and sophisticated computer models to create short and long-range weather forecasts
study the causes of weather conditions using information from land, sea and the atmosphere.
Promoting initiatives to mitigate climate change
Developing and delivering educational outreach programs on the effects of climate change.
Making recommendations related to climate change
Climate change analysts evaluate scientific data and research concerning the climate to create models and predictions about what could happen to the Earth's climate in the future.
geospatial services to improve productivity or sales reap substantial benefits
online maps facilitated business sales
Spatial and temporal analysis is an important component of a geographic education and a skill valued by a large number of business employers.
using geospatial tools such as GIS and GPS, are able to map and analyze economic data in search of important spatial patterns and relationships that can significantly enhance business efficiency and profitability.
The digital maps and geospatial tools geographers use have a myriad of positive effects for society and the environment
understand human-environment relationships and how to use that information to manage natural resources and to protect the planet as a whole.
Geographers study natural phenomena and work in areas as diverse as conservation, climate change, geology, meteorology, hazards, and natural resource management.
From emergency-response teams using GIS technology to model high-risk areas that could flood during hurricanes, to designing digital maps that help ambulance drivers and firefighters respond to disasters more quickly, the work of geographers can save lives.
environmental consultant, work in industry, join or start a non-profit, start a career in international development, or put your education to work in the US Geological Survey or US Forest Service, among many others.
embark on a career in a range of fields, including those in the education, commerce, industry, transport, tourism and public sectors
specializing in human geography, are great for developing skills and knowledge that would be useful for a career in politics or the non-profit sector.
geography teacher
Landscape architects create, design and manage the open spaces around us to ensure that they are not only aesthetically pleasing, but also safe and sustainable.
explore whilst still protecting the environment
protect a natural environment and raise awareness of the ways in which the local community can enjoy its settings without having a negative impact.
passionate about the environment and want to encourage others to appreciate and safeguard the natural world,
defense, meteorology, oil, gas, telecommunications and transportation, to make decisions which benefit the environment.
carry out the gathering and examination of geographical data generated by GIS.
complicated geographical information, for example radar.
working with data, analytics and computer systems
ensuring that development is sustainable and natural environments are maximally preserved.
analytical skills and knowledge of the environment into use to improve existing infrastructure and find solutions to environmental issues, as well as ensuring new developments are in line with various policies and regulations.
management and development not only of towns, but also cities, villages and rural areas.
geographical information systems (GIS) and digital-mapping techniques. 
Cartographers work within a variety of areas, including publishing, government, surveying and conservation.
restoration of old maps and historical documents.
developing and producing different types of maps, as well as producing related diagrams, charts, spreadsheets and travel guides.
Environmental consultancy offers the opportunity for a structured career path with the potential to specialize in an area of interest.
focusing on identifying whether an area of land, air or water is polluted, and what the impact would be, by means of desk-based research and field work.
Environmental consultants work to ensure that their commercial or government clients comply with regulations and address a variety of environmental issues.
focusing on issues relating to human communities and cultures.
develop solutions to some of the most pressing issues for modern society, including climate change, natural disasters, overpopulation, urban expansion, and multicultural integration. 
works projects, mitigate natural disasters or allocate natural resources.
civil engineering and urban planning
working with new tools and gathering information to paint broad pictures of people and places
interest in the social sciences and love to think critically about global challenges and threats like climate change.
learning about the environment, digital maps and discovering hidden connections
Working with GIS requires continued education as new methods and tools are developed.
cartography, geomatics, surveying, remote sensing and data analysis
specialized computer systems are used to describe spaces and compare data points
Geography majors may learn to work with GIS.
urban geography
introduction to earth system sciences, exploring topics like the atmosphere, as well as an introduction to human geography topics like culture, politics and globalization.
detailed digital maps that respond in real time has increased the demand for the specific skills associated with cartography.
art and science of mapmaking
analysis uses geographic information systems, or GIS, to map, visualize or store information about different spaces.
Human geography examines the interactions between humans and nature, and the reasons and methods for humans organizing into societies.
Physical geography explores the interconnected components of the environment through the traditional sciences.
physical geography, human geography, and geospatial representation and analysis.
learn how the environment and humans interact and affect one another.
exploring built and natural environments over time and understanding human activity within them.
study the intersection of humans and the environment through the social sciences, humanities and natural sciences.