The hospitality and tourism management degree prepares students for a wide variety of careers in food and beverage management, hotel/resort management, travel management, food marketing and distribution, and event management.
Among the biggest evolutions in the hospitality field is the impact of technology on guest experience, food service and delivery, and more.
Technology, along with data analytics, is driving how hospitality professionals are interacting with guests and managing their expectations.
From apps that help plan and manage guest experiences, to wearables that unlock guest room doors, to online check-in and food ordering, today’s hospitality professionals must be knowledgeable of how the latest technology is being used to improve the guest experience.
The hospitality management degree prepares students for the hospitality and tourism industry through a common core of courses, which promote an understanding of the interrelationships among the food, lodging, travel, and event management sectors based on the underlying concept of quality service management.
Ndidiamaka (Ndidi) Chimah BS ’24 is a Saunders College of Business student majoring in hospitality and tourism management. 
Hospitality management is an umbrella term for many industries such as food and beverage services, hotels, casinos, travel, and tourism.
The study of hospitality management covers important knowledge and skills in the hospitality industry including daily business operations, administration, marketing, human resources, and financial management.
Though greeting a customer may not seem like a difficult task, if you are looking to take a managerial role in hospitality, it’s necessary to master a myriad of skills including communication, food services, budgeting, revenue forecasting, and human resource management
Food and Beverage Service, Event-planning, Tourism, Hotel and Lodging Management
HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT JOBS IN FOOD AND BEVERAGE SERVICE
The food and beverage service industry includes any business that serves meals, snacks, and drinks to customers.
You can find many job opportunities in restaurants, bars, cafes, and catering services. 
Foodservice managers or restaurant managers are responsible for the daily operations of restaurants. 
In this supervisory role, they have many responsibilities ranging from managing food-handling procedures and customer service to hiring and training crew members. 
executive chef positions in many different settings such as restaurants, hotels, and cruise ships.
Executive chefs play a significant role in kitchen operations.
Their responsibilities include but are not limited to ordering and managing food supplies, ensuring food quality and safety, training kitchen staff, and designing the menu.
 food and beverage directors are responsible for ensuring the quality of food and drinks, planning menus, and training staff
In addition, food and beverage directors’ responsibilities extend beyond kitchen duties.
They set the service standards, manage front of house staff, and plan special events.
event planning positions in various organizations such as convention centers, event planning agencies, wedding planning firms, and hotels. 
Roles in this sector of the hospitality industry require skills such as communication, public relations, marketing, and client services
Convention and meeting planners or event planners coordinate all aspects of personal or professional events, including choosing the location, planning the budget, arranging food and beverage, and managing on-site staff.
They are also the point of contact with clients and vendors. 
Event planners have meetings with clients to understand their needs and solve any problems they might encounter in the project.
Working primarily for non-profit organizations, fundraisers plan and organize events to raise money or other kinds of donations. 
In addition, fundraisers oversee the marketing efforts of fundraising events or campaigns to increase the awareness of organizations. 
To become a fundraiser, you need strong communication and event planning skills.
Employers often look for candidates with a bachelor’s degree in hospitality management or public relations. 
Holding a master’s degree in hospitality management makes you a competitive candidate for a fundraiser position.
Hospitality management graduates can find diverse tourism job opportunities such as flight attendants, travel agents, and tour guides serving people around the world.
As technology has changed the way people travel, in addition to the career paths listed below, graduates can pursue fast-growing opportunities at online travel companies as well.
Travel agents provide consulting services to customers taking a trip and help them with everything from planning an itinerary to booking plane tickets and hotels and arranging meal plans. 
Travel agents work closely with clients and vendors; therefore, those who are looking to become a travel agent should have good customer service, problem-solving, and negotiation skills.
Typically working for visitors and convention bureaus, destination marketing managers promote travel destinations to attract tourists.
They identify target markets then develop travel plans that appeal to specific customer segments
destination marketing managers oversee marketing strategies such as advertising and social media marketing and also analyze industry trends and establish pricing strategies for travel products.
The hotel industry provides guest accommodation and lodging services.
Besides hotels, it includes many other forms of overnight accommodation such as inns, motels, resorts, and Bed and Breakfasts. 
Many of the managerial roles in the hotel and lodging industry require at minimum a bachelor’s degree in hospitality management, business administration, or a related field.
Candidates with a master’s degree in hospitality management are advantageous in the job market. 
Hotel managers are not only accountable for providing the best experience to their guests, but they also oversee employee hiring, marketing, budgeting, and administration of hotel services.
If you want to be a hotel manager, you need to develop exceptional customer service and marketing skills and have in-depth knowledge of hotel management and human resources.
Hotel sales managers play an important role in ensuring the profitability of a hotel. 
They direct the sales teams to set sales goals and promotional plans to sell rooms, upgrades, and other relevant services. 
To be a successful hotel sales manager, you need to be an excellent communicator, problem-solver, and decision-maker.
Focusing on long-term strategic financial planning, hotel property or real estate managers ensure a hotel’s real estate investment reaches its expected revenue.
Boston University offers a Master of Management in Hospitality (MMH) degree with several different concentration options. If you are interested in starting your career in hospitality management, BU School of Hospitality Administration (SHA) provides useful career resources to help students find their career paths.
Leveraging the strong relationships with top hospitality employers, SHA strives to help students get their desired full-time positions and internship opportunities.
Excellent oral and written communication
Multitasking abilities and high level of flexibilities
Adapting quickly to a new environment and culture
Customer service skills
Telephone etiquette
Expansive knowledge of tourism and tourist attractions.
High levels of patience and tolerance
Obedience and discipline
Proper time management
Positive attitude
if you are determined and passionate to work in top-class hotels, resorts, spas or restaurants, you will definitely be able to complete the hospitality course without failing. 
Hotel manager, Restaurant manager, Catering manager, Chef, Event manager, Public house manager, Accommodation manager, Travel agency manager, Holiday representative, Tour manager, Tourism officer, Tourist information centre manager, Customer service manager, Human resources officer, Retail manager, Marketing executive, Outdoor activities/education manager.
The mission of the Hospitality and Tourism Management Program is to provide academic training that prepares students to become entrepreneurial leaders, managers and professionals in roles that are focused on the understanding and appreciation of the global environment.
Every chef who works in a professional kitchen has to wear a uniform for work
Many chefs dreamed of becoming a chef and being able to do their job everyday is a dream come true.
While you might be thinking being a chef is a lot of hard work, that doesn't matter to chefs who love their job
n every kitchen there is a fun comradery and it feels like you're working with your family rather than your colleagues.
working as a chef or getting work experience in a restaurant kitchen to see if it's the job for you. 
To be an excellent chef you have to care about the little details.
Being a chef means a lot of hours at work and working on your feet. 
At first, the long hours might seem difficult to face but if you enjoy your job, long hours isn't an issue. 
Working as a chef means working long hours.  
Being a chef requires dedication and discipline. 
Did you know that the travel and tourism industry is the 21st century’s fastest growing industry?
This job is ideal for people in the hospitality industry who want to engage with customers face-to-face.
They also have to be detail-oriented because they need to remember customers’ orders, especially complicated drink orders
While no formal education is required, waiters and waitresses must have strong interpersonal and communication skills
They interact directly with customers taking orders, serving food and beverages, and take payments from patrons.
Waiters and waitresses work in restaurants, bars, hotels, casinos, and other food-serving establishments. 
A valet parks patrons’ cars when they come to a hotel, restaurant, or other venue. 
A porter is one of many support staff positions in the hospitality industry. 
Porters are tasked with handling baggage for guests. 
Housekeepers within the hospitality industry make beds, do laundry, clean bathrooms, stock linens, and more.
Being a housekeeper requires some physical stamina because you often have to lift heavy loads and be on your feet most of the day.
 Housekeepers are responsible for maintaining a standard of cleanliness throughout a hotel or other hospitality venue. 
 This involves interacting with guests, managing staff, handling the finances of the property, and much more.
A hotel general manager, or hotel manager, makes sure that a hotel (or inn, lodge, or any other venue with sleeping accommodations) is running smoothly. 
 People in this role supervise cooks, sous chefs, and other kitchen employees. 
 An executive chef oversees the food operations in restaurants, hotels, casinos, or other venues that serve food.
An executive chef is a managerial role that involves a lot of work behind the scenes in the hospitality industry. 
 An event planner works with a company, or an individual, to arrange the event and then ensures it runs smoothly
A concierge interacts directly with customers, providing them with various services.
Many jobs in the hospitality industry involve dealing with customers face-to-face in a variety of ways.
It includes jobs working in hotels, restaurants, casinos, theme parks, cruise lines, and other facilities that help customers meet their leisure and recreational needs.
Tourism is a huge industry where the opportunities are practically endless.
Employees are often young, bringing an energy and sense of fun to teams and workplaces
Working in tourism offers exotic or beautiful locations, modern working spaces and a dynamic environment. 
The hospitality industry is extremely cosmopolitan and when you chose to be a part of this industry, you automatically become a part of the global hospitality community. 
The industry open doors and exposes you to scenarios and cultures that you would otherwise never have been a part of.
Every nation in the world has a booming hospitality industry that you can be a part of. 
A job in the hotel industry allows a great deal of freedom and mobility, as well as the rare opportunity to meet, service, and interact with people from all walks and corners of life.
There’s something new every day and you’re working in a lively, exciting environment.
Being in the industry allows you to make connections all around the world and take advantage of “favor rates” and trades to make travel easier and more affordable.
You work with people from all over the world with colleagues coming from different cultures and backgrounds.
You meet fun and lively co-workers and the atmosphere is upbeat.
 People who work in hospitality are typically outgoing and friendly
You’ll develop yourself personally and professionally by thinking on your feet, meeting a wide variety of colleagues and working as a team.
While it makes sense to get some specific training or attend a hospitality program, you can get your foot in the door with very little experience and work your way up.
Hotel work has a long and storied connection with the past and continues to evolve.
For thousands of years, people have traveled around and stayed at inns to meet their basic needs
There are so many options in the hospitality industry that you need never get “stuck” in one job.
You have flexibility and variety in your day not only in the work you do, but also the hours you work.
The hotel industry is vast and growing.
Often hired by visitors' bureaus or travel companies, tour guides are typically residents of the region in which they give tours.
Guides may give walking tours, bus tours, or even lead river tours on a boat. 
Tour guides work in the travel industry, giving guided tours to groups of visitors. 
Potential tour guides should be fit and healthy with lots of energy and confidence, be able to work effectively without supervision, possess a calm 'customer focused' manner, and have excellent interpersonal skills.
There are accredited tourist guide training programmes that cover a range of destinations, including London, and that enable you to qualify at three different levels for three different types of guiding: at sites, on guided walks, and on a moving vehicle. 
Work with the general public, or experience gained within the hotel, tourism or travel trades is usually beneficial.
Tour guide jobs sometimes also call for chauffeuring and language skills. 
Tour guides show groups round attractions such as historic monuments, cultural centres and beauty spots, and provide them with background information to help them make the most of their visit.
Tour guides accompany groups of visitors to tourist attractions, whether on day trips or longer visits, and give them information and insights that help them make the most of the experience.
Tourism, the act and process of spending time away from home in pursuit of recreation, relaxation, and pleasure, while making use of the commercial provision of services
Destination satisfaction is influenced by endogenous, as well as exogenous factors, that are beyond the destination managers’ control. 
This study compares overall satisfaction in eleven tourism areas located in the Region of South Bohemia, Czech Republic, and identifies if perceived weather, as an exogenous factor, can influence overall visitor satisfaction and destination comparison
Tourism management requires an understanding of the structures that govern the behaviour of the Tourism system and its development
Tourists travel to destinations that are accessible to them.
Cycling tourism has grown in popularity worldwide, motivating its inclusion in the development strategies of tourism organizations.
Cycling tourism is highly concentrated in and around the popular attractions of Tibet.
The effect is even more striking in Hawaii, which has been one of the most popular tourist destinations in the United States since the 1950s
The researchers collected lodging data from AirBnB to examine trends in monthly revenues, occupancy rates and reservations from roughly two years before construction of the turbines to one year after construction was completed.
They compared AirBnB rental trends in Block Island to those in nearby communities that are also dependent on summer vacation rentals Narragansett, Westerly and Nantucket.
The results were almost entirely positive for the peak summer months of July and August, and there were no noticeable effects during the rest of the year.
We have multiple indicators for the tourism market, and they seem to be indicative that there was an increase in interest in visiting Block Island in the year after construction of the wind farm
We have multiple indicators for the tourism market, and they seem to be indicative that there was an increase in interest in visiting Block Island in the year after construction of the wind farm
Total expenditure by domestic tourists in coastal areas was estimated to be €698 million in 2018, which represents 35% of the total expenditure by domestic tourists that year.
The marine related activity expenditure on overnight trips, or what might truly be referred to as domestic marine tourism, is estimated to have generated revenue of €381 million with €172 million of this being spent on water-based activities.
To generate information on domestic coastal and marine tourism in Ireland SEMRU carried out a household survey of residents in 2019, funded by the Marine Institute through its Marine Research Programme.
Based on the results of the survey, 77% of respondents had actively engaged in marine related activities, on either day or overnight trips, during the year 2018
The most popular land-based coastal activities were walking/running along the coast/beach/cliffs/etc., beach or seaside trips, and coastal sightseeing.
The most popular water-based activities were sea swimming, surfing, recreational boating of different types and sea angling.
The results also indicate that domestic tourists undertake the majority of their marine activities on the West and South coasts of Ireland.
he domestic marine tourism market offers significant opportunities for growth.
 wildlife tourism has rapidly expanded and is one of the fastest growing sectors of the tourism industry
Ecotourism opportunities to cage-dive with white sharks, large marine predators, are available in Australia, South Africa, the United States of America, Mexico, and New Zealand, with up to seven companies operating simultaneously in one site
wildlife tourism can change behavior of animal species by altering their habitats or eating patterns.
Spending time interacting with cage-diving operators might distract sharks from normal behaviors such as foraging on natural, energy-rich prey like pinnipeds
Tourism on Antarctica is increasing and that can form a threat for the vulnerable South Pole area.
One possible solution is that of marketable visitor rights
The visitor rights will be auctioned: sold to the highest bidder. Then the buyers are free to trade the rights further.
The study Sustainable Tourism in the Antarctic Peninsula: Future Pathways and Policies is being funded by the Netherlands Polar Programme.
Increasing numbers of tourists are interested in observing wildlife such as African elephants, and income generated from tourism potentially aids in the protection of animals and their habitats. However, a new Journal of Zoology study reveals that wildlife tourism may be a stressor for free-ranging elephants.
Going to the beach this summer? European tourists are more frequently going to places all over the world with significant tsunami risk, researchers have found.
A global tourism destination risk index for tsunamis was released today at the 2018 Annual Conference of the European Geosciences Union (EGU) in Vienna, based on a study led by Andreas Schaefer of Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT).
Empathy, emotional intelligence and teamwork
In absolute terms, Hawaii is by far the highest risk area on the globe for tourism risk to tsunamis, as it can be affected by many possible tsunami sources from Japan, Alaska, South America and other regions," said Schaefer, "most of the loss would be monetary however due to significant investment in warnings
Stress, time management and problem solving
The famous beach economy in Hawaii would have significant issues through the loss of infrastructure, erosion and other effects.
suggest feasible solutions to problems is one of the most valued soft skills for careers in hospitality and tourism, and certainly a determining factor when it comes to professional success. Whatever your specialty, you will need to learn how to manage a crisis, from identifying the problem to evaluating how well you did and what could be improved in future.
Many of the tourists now flocking to see Australia's Great Barrier Reef (GBR) are hoping to 'see it before it's gone' in the latest example of what's come to be known as 'Last Chance Tourism (LCT)'.
In some past events, such as in the Indian Ocean, significant numbers of tourists stayed away from the entire region and prices decreased, due to beach loss, hotel damage and infrastructure issues
ensure passengers disembark safely at the end of a flight and check that there is no luggage left in the overhead lockers and no stowaways or suspicious items on board
ensure the tour goes smoothly and that holidaymakers enjoy themselves.
make contact in advance with places to stay or visit to check details and arrangements
organise and attend tourism events, conferences, workshops, seminars and exhibitions
plan and organise promotional, business and social events.
organise conferences, seminars and exhibitions, as well as parties and corporate incentive trips.
customer service to passengers while ensuring their comfort and safety throughout the flight.
Choosing a Tourism and Hospitality Master's degree will get you accustomed to working in an international environment and being more in tune with the needs of guests from different social and cultural backgrounds while helping them enjoy their time off
A good understanding of business and what drives business success is a great advantage for people working in Tourism or Hospitality
, Tourism and Hospitality careers are not like a never-ending vacation.
Becoming a tour guide isn’t easy, there are some intensive training and a long interview process, but if you manage to score the job, it is undoubtedly the best way to travel the world and still earn the cash you need to enjoy it! 
That means, as a tour guide, you will have hundreds of best friends who were on your tours scattered across the world.
Knowing a destination inside out means you’ll know all the best restaurants, bars, cafes and insider tips to maximize the fun you’ll have while also getting the best possible price on meals and drinks.
When you are guiding, your transport expenses, accommodation and some meals are all covered
You will finally be surrounded by people who understand and encourage your need to see the world and experience new cultures
When you work in the travel industry, all your colleagues are as crazy about travel as you are!
To be a truly excellent tour guide, you need to know your stuff, which means studying up on architectural styles, historical fun facts and the best places to eat, drink and party
As a tour guide, ‘work’ means being a part of someone’s happiest holiday memories.
You will be paid to travel.
you will visit, study and experience new destinations multiple times
In most cases, a tour guide does not just do the same tour loop for an entire season.
Becoming a tour guide is one of the most rewarding and exhilarating ways to see the world, learn about a country’s culture and history while sharing your love of travel with people just like you.
There’s a number of different paths to earning as you travel
A chef is in charge of the kitchen in restaurants or other places where food is served.
Chefs ensure the meals are cooked and seasoned properly and that they are pleasing to the eye.
There is a lot of work that goes into becoming a chef.
f you love food and cooking why not make a career out of it by becoming a professional chef. 
You’ll need to get the proper training to start with, and when you’re in your first kitchen, be a sponge – learning as much as you can from the chefs around you
 But if you love cooking, and you love food, there’s no better job, so go ahead and do it. You won’t regret it.
This is not an easy job, so you should think carefully before starting out.
This is not a job where you can expect to have a normal social life.
you need ridiculously good stamina.
you need to be able to work under a tonne of pressure, be able to deal with stress and keep a cool head
You need to love food and be passionate about keeping yourself up to date with all things food related.
Generally, though, the main tasks are preparing the days service, making sure the orders are in, checking that all your team are ready for service, followed by the service itself.
 Ever since my mum taught me how to cook as a child, I’ve been in love with being in the kitchen.
ensure travel arrangements run as smoothly as possible and provide holidaymakers with practical support throughout their trip.
deal with customer complaints and comments
front-line operations, which include things like food and guest service, and business management. 
plan and organise accommodation, catering and other hotel services
guest services, accounting or marketing, and your role will form part of a general management team.
ranging from food and beverages to sustainable hotels and adventure tourism, this is a highly attractive area to build a career in
accountable for budgeting and financial management and will need to plan, organise and direct all hotel services, including front-of-house (reception, concierge, and reservations), food and beverage operations and housekeeping.
liaise with suppliers, oversee deliveries, manage the kitchen budget and design menus. You may spend less time cooking than in other chef roles.
prepare and plate dishes and have an input into menu design.
Hospitality is the largest employment sector in the world, according to a report from last year by Ernst & Young, but it doesn’t take in-depth analysis to look around and see it’s a booming and highly profitable sector
be in charge of training and oversee hygiene and cleanliness in the kitchen
assist the sous chef or head chef in developing menus
The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) estimates that 1 of every 10 jobs on the planet are in the hospitality and tourism industry, which also accounts for 1 in 5 of all new jobs created over the last five years. That means there’s plenty of opportunities to create a career in this ever-growing industry.
Studying tourism and hospitality management is your ticket to one of the highest growing industries today
get to grips with the fundamentals of cooking, such as knife skills. This may involve understanding the basic cuts
work in different sections of the kitchen, helping the chef de partie
work in restaurants, pubs, hotel restaurants, cruise ships, the Armed Forces and in contract catering.
Speak the Language
Restaurants, Cruise Lines and Tourism, Clubs and Casinos, Hotels, Motels and Inns, Event and Convention Management, Parks and Recreation Management, Golf courses, Marinas and Ski Resorts
travel and see the world.
Hospitality and Tourism majors will be able to pursue a wide variety of career options that deliver the excitement and potential of employment in the world's largest industry. 
Waiters and baristas often come to mind when one mentions a career in hospitality.
opens your mind to other cultures and ideas and teaches the values of tolerance and respect.
interact with people from all walks of life.
learn how to work with others and the importance of team work and conflict resolution.
Hospitality teaches the importance of team work.
customer service
build new partnerships between professionals and between businesses.
meet a cross-section of your home town as custodian of a local bar, restaurant, or institutional venue.
hospitality is about welcoming people.
work for a pub, an airline, or an exhibition center.
manage hotels, transform the ‘customer service’ element of outdated hospitals, or open your own restaurant.
Travel and tourism was the second biggest growing sector in 2018
strengthening local cultural ties and embedding a sense of ‘responsible tourism’ in the way things are done.
reception staff, conference and exhibition management, restaurant and catering management and hotel and accommodation management.
specialise in a particular area of hospitality, such as hotel, tourism, international hospitality or events management, or to move into a related area such as HR or marketing.
people management, service delivery, leadership, finance and marketing, as well as identifying, understanding and responding to the needs of clients
human resources, marketing or finance management.
work in a luxury hotel, apply to local hotels of a similar standard.
The more the world changes, the more opportunities arise for new hospitality jobs and businesses.
New concepts for lodging, travel and restaurants are constantly being invented to meet the ever-changing demands of consumers.
The process culminates in real-world business projects where students prove their ability to analyze and solve complex business problems.
learning in hospitality environments, which creates a strong foundation of know-how.
knowledge about other countries and cultures
met so many different people with different nationalities and cultures.
possible to move around the globe
growth trend of the hospitality industry will not slow down
leads to leisure and customer satisfaction.
financial management, marketing, event management, tourism, restaurants
travel and hospitality experiences
travel and tourism sector
desire to run an exotic, remote resort or fancy managing a casino, the choice is yours.
hotel management