Political Science
Political science is a very popular pre-law major because politics is heavily interrelated with legislation. The study of political behavior, government systems, and how the judicial system works are all very useful in law school.
Students in this major also explore other country’s legal systems and gain an understanding of how laws are created and executed.
Psychology is one of the top five most popular undergraduate majors in general, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, so it makes sense that it is a popular choice among pre-law majors.
Psychology also provides students with an understanding of concepts like stereotyping, prejudice, discrimination, cognitive dissonance, and other theories and issues that are useful to future lawyers.
Criminal justice is a natural fit for law school for those who are interested in pursuing a career in criminal law. 
In this major, students learn about the corrections system, court proceedings, and other parts of the legal system. 
English is one of the majors that has been historically associated with law school due to the reading, writing and critical thinking required in an English degree.
English students have to be able to conduct research, craft an argument, and defend their position in writing, all of which are skills future lawyers need as well. 
Economics is a useful major for those who want a blend of quantitative and qualitative courses, and also for students who wish to study tax law and financial regulations in law school. 
Studying history provides future law students with context for legislation, as well as an understanding of how important legal systems and precedents were created.
History majors also have to conduct research, write papers, and comprehend difficult texts, skills that are useful in law school.
In general, arts & humanities majors can help students prepare for law school due to the reading, writing, and critical thinking involved with the various coursework.
Since law schools tend to prefer students with a variety of courses, having a liberal arts degree provides students with the opportunity to take a lot of different classes. 
In a philosophy major, students must discuss logic and reasoning, learn about ethics, and examine moral and political issues, all of which align with law school. 
In addition, what you learn in a philosophy major can help prepare you for the logic tests on the LSAT.
Similar to Arts & Humanities majors, a sociology major involves a lot of writing and critical thinking, while also incorporating some quantitative and qualitative reasoning, all of which are helpful in preparing for law school. 
Communications majors have to do a lot of reading, writing and research, as well as public speaking and negotiation, all of which are important areas to develop for law school success.
Organizational management, crisis communication, critical thinking, and conflict management are also useful aspects of a communications major for law school. 
A pre-law curriculum may include a range of classes in the humanities and social sciences, such as history, philosophy and political science.
challenge you and excite you, and then take a well-rounded course selection that will grow your reading, writing and critical thinking skills.
Prestige, financial reward, intellectual stimulation, and the ability to make a positive change in society
The ethics of the profession require attorneys to promote justice, fairness, and morality
legal employment can bring particular satisfaction to those who seek to work, within the law, to rectify social injustice.
Many lawyers find fulfillment in working to solve individual, group, and societal problems through the law.
thrive in situations in which they can develop their reasoning, analysis, research, and communication skills.
working in a well known law firm or for a famous client
Know the realities of legal life, but seek inspiration and positive role models to balance your understanding.
fight for social justice
volunteer legal assistance to a non-profit dealing with immigration law
work for a large firm that has a strong commitment to pro-bono work or whose mission is to serve the public interest.
Meet with the pre-law advisors to do some self-assessment and discuss how your interests, values, skills and personality fit with the demands of the legal field
pre-law society
Follow legal issues in the national media
American Lawyer
Take classes on law and legal history. The more you know about how legislation is approached in the United States and abroad,
the better prepared you will be for your first day of law school. Additionally, taking these classes will help you decide whether the study of law is interesting to you.
legal affairs column in the Chicago Tribune
law column in the Wall Street Journal
save or change the world
Join debate, newspaper, and writing clubs. 
Lawyers must have a strong command of logic and the written word. 
Your extracurricular activities will help you cultivate these qualities and make applying to law school that much easier.
Seek out internships with law firms, courts, and legal organizations.
There are thousands of ways to practice law, from supporting large companies as a corporate lawyer to defending asylum-seekers with a non-profit organization.
The more internship opportunities you pursue in your field, the better sense you will have of what type of law you want to pursue.
For industry-related law, take classes on your industry. 
Patent lawyers require a firm grasp of the natural sciences in order to practice. 
Similarly, entertainment and international law rely on an extensive understanding of media and current affairs, respectively.
want the power, prestige and money they believe comes with a law degree.
Use your undergraduate years as an opportunity to strengthen your foundation in the industry in which you hope to practice law.
find practicing law an exciting, challenging and rewarding career.
Look for schools that offer pre-law advising. 
Lawyers might find themselves arresting a ship or zoning a playground, working independently in their home or with others in a high rise corporate office.
As a prospective law student, finding the latter type of school will give you the context and support you need to excel once it comes time to apply.
Lawyers can practice law by helping clients plan to avoid problems, by solving problems once they develop, by representing and counseling businesses in a particular industry, by representing individuals sharing a common status or problem and by appearing (or not appearing) in court.
critical and analytical thinking skills they demonstrated to get into law school
interested in pursuing law
Select a rigorous, well-respected school or program.
lawyer may negotiate the terms of an agreement for the sale of a business, another may draft the agreement, and yet another may defend the terms of the agreement in a court action.
Both your college GPA and the rigor of your course load will be considered when you apply to law school.
For that reason, it is important to prioritize academics during your undergraduate years.
analytical thinking, creative writing, research, communication, counseling, problem solving, negotiation and the ability to work independently.
Pursue a program that strengthens your critical reasoning and attention to detail.
Lawyers must tolerate, and hopefully thrive on, the adversarial nature of law practice and the hard work, long hours, and stress of juggling numerous projects and the competing demands of clients.
lawyers may not necessarily agree on which features are positive and which are negative, aspiring lawyers must determine if they will enjoy a career where these features are, to a degree, inevitable.
Certain fields, such as Classics, Linguistics, and Mathematics, demand more critical reasoning and attention to detail than others.
Pick a writing-heavy major.
Law students have many papers to write, as well as exams that include long written responses to questions.
Seek out schools and programs with smaller class sizes
understanding the realities of law practice and then explore the career options available to them enjoy their legal career after school.
should make a decision based on accurate self-analysis, correct perceptions about the life of a lawyer and realistic expectations so they will find an exciting, challenging and rewarding career.
Receiving strong letters of recommendation from professors will go a long way towards setting you apart in your law school application.
Use undergrad to build your foundation in an industry of interest.
Similarly, if you want to support a particular population, now is a great time to learn a foreign language that will be useful when you practice.
Sociology majors have to be comfortable scrutinizing data and writing long papers.
Both the critical thinking and writing skills that this major cultivates can be leveraged in law school.
This group of majors tends to be fairly writing-heavy and attracts students with the focus to spend hours reading. 
Traditionally, philosophy is considered the ultimate pre-law major. 
Criminal Justice is a natural fit for law school for those who are interested in pursuing a career in criminal law. 
If you love to be hands-on with the justice system, this may be the major for you.
No field of study gives you more exposure to law prior to law school.
Economics is a useful major for those who want a blend of quantitative and qualitative courses, and also for students who wish to study tax law and financial regulations in law school. 
Economics offers the perfect blend of quantitative and qualitative experience. 
Additionally, this field prepares you to be an effective lawmaker and advocate for sound monetary policy.
Understanding capital is vital for understanding large portions of tax law and federal regulation.
Understanding the past is critical for interpreting law for two reasons.
First, it establishes precedent, and knowing how legal cases have been resolved in the past is central to our understanding of how to decide current cases.
learn to think like a lawyer
Second, a grounding in the past helps you zoom out and understand the broader social context for a piece of legislation.
Psychology is the third social science to make an appearance on this list, and that is no surprise.
analyticalskills necessary to think like a lawyer.
So much of politics is high-quality legislation that it is no wonder this field tops our list of most popular majors for law school students. 
think like Dan Quayle, Richard Nixon, and the members of theSenate Judiciary Committee.
work for justice
Political Science offers an invaluable framework for the laws you will be studying in graduate school. 
a lawyer but are still deciding which major to choose, you cannot go wrong with Political Science.
interested in justice
benefit society byrepresenting less fortunate victims of our legal system.
like to argue
To become a lawyer, you must first get your education from a law program and pass the infamous Bar exam, both of which require a great deal of time, hard work, and dedication. 
A lawyer, also known as an attorney, is a licensed professional who advises and represents their clients on matters of the law.
he two main duties of a lawyer are to uphold the law, Protect their client’s rights
social service
problem-solving and helping people
navigate the legal system
solving problems, especially problems like helping people to navigate lots of intricate, complex forms.
In turn, lawyers play an essential role in our society.
ensure that their clients get treated fairly in legal matters and that justice is upheld. 
When people think of lawyers, many envision someone arguing their client’s case in court, addressing the judge and jury. 
This is known as litigation. While litigation is one important duty of being a lawyer, it’s not the only one. 
Most lawyers spend the majority of their time in the office, drafting contracts, researching case law, and preparing legal documents. 
Lawyers also hold meetings with clients, where they advise them on legal matters and help them navigate complex situations.
how long does it take to become a lawyer officially
people with government backgrounds seem to have no problem getting attorney jobs.
aspiring lawyers must fulfill specific educational and licensure requirements
Earning a bachelor’s degree, Taking the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), Attending law school, Studying for and passing the Bar exam, Applying for acceptance from the Bar Association
Corporate tax attorneys
It takes roughly 3 years to complete law school and earn your Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree. 
interested in corporate tax law
complex problem solving skills
During your legal education, you’ll learn about constitutional law, property law, contract law, civil procedure, and legal writing.
You’ll also have the option to pursue advanced courses in tax law, labor law, and corporate law. 
Ideally, you should attend an ABA-accredited law school if you plan to practice as a lawyer in California.
These law schools are approved by the Cal Bar Association
To become a licensed lawyer, you must pass your state’s Bar exam.
want to be a lawyer
a Good Lawyer
Writing skills Lawyers spend a considerable amount of time preparing legal documents. Thus, you must be able to write clearly and professionally.
Research skills Laws are always evolving. Lawyers must be on top of the latest legal regulations to properly advise, support, and represent their clients. 
intelligent, motivated critical thinker, any academic background can be a good preparation for law school.
better advocate as an attorney
Speaking skills Lawyers speak on behalf of their clients in a variety of settings. In turn, they must be able to speak effectively, often in front of many people, including judges, mediators, juries, and opposing parties.
Problem solving skills To do their job well, lawyers must be able to look at a problem objectively and find the best solution expediently. 
Interpersonal skills To be a successful lawyer, you need to earn your clients’ trust. By possessing exceptional interpersonal skills, you’ll be able to relate to clients in a professional, personable way.
Analytical skills Lawyers spend a lot of time analyzing cases, examining the facts, and developing strategies to represent their clients effectively, all of which require analytical skills.
Becoming a lawyer takes time, dedication, and a significant financial investment.
To make sure it’s worth the time and effort, you should clarify your motivation before entering the field. 
A passion for helping people Lawyers serve as advocates for their clients. 
The professional status When people think of top-tier professions, lawyers, doctors, and engineers often come to mind. 
lawyers are generally well-respected and enjoy professional status. 
The salary potential Last but not least, many people pursue law for the earning potential.
drawn to criminal law or estate law
Administrative law, Admiralty law, Corporate law, Commercial Law, Constitutional law, Criminal law, Environmental law, Estate and trust law, First Amendment law, Health care law, Intellectual property law, International law, mall business law, Tax law
go beyond protective order hearings, support groups, and evidence collection exams.
legislative work and advocate for change on a national level.
e a voice for those whose message may sometimes get lost
offer not only legal counsel to these individuals, but hope for a better life and long-lasting recovery.
use my law degree to change the world of people who feel forgotten by society.
continue to empower and lead marginalized communities toward legal and social equality and to defend others silenced by the severity of their circumstances.
influence the law to make patent thickets illegal without sacrificing patent protection.
law can be changed to encourage pharmaceutical competition and innovation instead of smothering it.
impact policy makers and create positive change in society.
If criminal law piques your interest, Alliant International University 
representing women abused in the name of honor, children trapped in arranged marriages, victims of discrimination, and anyone whose unalienable rights are breached.
A legal education will empower me with the skills and training needed to take action against these human rights violations.
international human rights lawyer and spokesman who champions the humanity of all humans.
introduce global human policy to the national agenda.
ensuring that all human lives are valued, and that all human deaths are treated with the same urgency internationally.
immigration lawyer to be the most effective way of contributing to a more just country.
Political law or political activity law is an established legal practice area encompassing the intersection of politics and law.
law enables us to create a society in which we can and do choose to take care of those with preexisting health conditions.
Political law comprises election law, voting rights law, campaign finance law, laws governing lobbying and lobbyists, open government laws, legislative and executive branch ethics codes, legislative procedure, administrative procedure, constitutional law, and legislative and regulatory drafting.
Political laws are applied primarily to government officials, candidates, advocacy groups, lobbyists, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and trade unions.
laws and regulations that concern parties and candidates as key stakeholders in a political system, such as registration requirements for political parties as organisations, and roles and functions that are attributed to political parties in the political system by constitution or party law.
local demand for everyday legal issues like traffic violations and property transactions
global law firms, legal departments at major corporations and boutique practices.
Public interest lawyers champion legal causes for the greater good of society and help those in need of legal assistance who might not otherwise be able to afford attorneys.
The financial laws and regulations concerning political parties, as well as legislated quotas, will be discussed in separate sections.
Law on Relationships between Fellow Community Members (PK I), Law on Crime Prevention and Combating (PK II), Legal Practice (PK III), Law on Economic Activities (PK IV), Law on State and Public Relations (PK V), Law on Transnational Relations (PK VI), Law on Public Welfare and Social Issues (PK VII)
The Faculty of Law Universitas Indonesia (FHUI) has one study programme, namely the Legal Studies Programme which produces Sarjana Hukum (SH) or Bachelor’s in Law.
law students enter law school directly from their undergraduate studies without having had any post-baccalaureate work experience
law school education
perform pro bono work to help low-income individuals and underserved portions of the population, such as the elderly, victims of domestic abuse, and children.
Students are admitted to law school from almost every academic discipline.
lawyers are problem-solvers, analysts, and innovative thinkers whose intellect is crucial to career success.
employment law, foreclosure law, and civil litigation to specialties such as green law or intellectual property law. 
Problem Solving, Critical Reading, Writing and Editing, Oral Communication and Listening, Research, Organization and Management, Public Service and Promotion of Justice, Relationship-building and Collaboration, Background Knowledge, Exposure to the Law
If you wish to prepare adequately for a legal education, and for a career in law or for other professional service that involves the use of lawyering skills, you should seek educational, extra-curricular, and life experiences that will assist you in developing those attributes. 
The student who comes to law school
Good legal education will teach you to "think like a lawyer", but the analytic and problem solving skills required of lawyers are not fundamentally different from those employed by other professionals.
work in law firms, government, and for corporations.
legal consulting, management, writing, mediation, and academia.
Attorneys have stood at the center of society for centuries.
affect societal change as lawmakers and thought leaders.
Your law school experience will develop and refine those crucial skills, but you must enter law school with a reasonably well developed set of analytic and problem solving abilities.
write the laws, rule the courts, and hold influential positions in government.
impact top policymakers and leaders and to affect change around the globe.
close reading and critical analysis of complex textual material, for much of what you will do as a law student and lawyer involves careful reading and comprehension of judicial opinions, statutes, documents, and other written materials. 
make the world a safer place for you, your family, and everyone else
You can develop your critical reading ability in a wide range of experiences, including the close reading of complex material in literature, political or economic theory, philosophy, or history. 
engaged in the enterprise of carefully reading and understanding, and critically analyzing, complex written material of substantial length.
Language is the most important tool of a lawyer, and lawyers must learn to express themselves clearly and concisely.
domestic law, real estate, corporate/business law, bankruptcy law, immigration law, or estate planning.
Fundamental writing skills, however, must be acquired and refined before you enter law school.
You should seek as many experiences as possible that will require rigorous and analytical writing, including preparing original pieces of substantial length and revising written work in response to constructive criticism.
The ability to speak clearly and persuasively is another skill that is essential to your success in law school and the practice of law. 
corporate in-house attorney working for one client.
You must also have excellent listening skills if you are to understand your clients and others with whom you will interact daily.
assisting people achieve a positive outcome for their problem is extremely satisfying.
As with writing skills, legal education provides excellent opportunities for refining oral communication skills, and particularly for practicing the forms and techniques of oral expression that are most common in the practice of law
Before coming to law school, however, you should seek to develop your basic speaking and listening skills, such as by engaging in debate, making formal presentations in class, or speaking before groups in school, the community, or the workplace.
Although there are many research sources and techniques that are specific to the law, you do not have to have developed any familiarity with these specific skills or materials before entering law school. 
However, it would be to your advantage to come to law school having had the experience of undertaking a project that requires significant library research and the analysis of large amounts of information obtained from that research.
Organization and Management 
To study and practice law, you are going to need to be able to organize large amounts of information, identify objectives, and create a structure for applying that information in an efficient way in order to achieve desired results.
Many law school courses, for example, are graded primarily on the basis of one examination at the end of the course, and many projects in the practice of law require the compilation of large amounts of information from a wide variety of sources. 
An attorney usually sees a person during one of the worst moments of their life; therefore, it can be extremely rewarding to help this person find a successful resolution to their problem.
Public Service and Promoting Justice
mental stimulation an attorney experiences when working through complex legal theories, statutes, and case law to find a solution to a legal question.
Most lawyers possess exceptional analytical skills including reading and writing skills.
Public Service and Promoting Justice
use your mental skills each day in effective ways to solve problems for your clients.
use your full mental capabilities to research, speculate, hypothesize, and formulate legal strategies to effectively solve problems for your clients.
argue a case in a court room
argue legal theories and points to prove your allegations are correct, becoming an attorney will give you ample opportunity to argue and debate legal theories and various interpretations of the law.
Relationship-building and Collaboration
Many lawyers join the legal profession because they want the chance to help make the world a better place.
Much of the work that lawyers do, whether in practice or in other settings, requires collaborating with others
Moreover, these interpersonal skills are essential for attracting and working productively with clients, co-counsel, opposing attorneys, expert witnesses, and many others.
A broad understanding of history, including the various factors (social, political, economic, and cultural) that have influenced the development of our society in the United States.
A fundamental understanding of political thought and of the contemporary American political system
Some basic mathematical and financial skills, such as an understanding of basic pre-calculus mathematics and an ability to analyze financial data.
A basic understanding of human behavior and social interaction.
An understanding of diverse cultures within and beyond the United States, of international institutions and issues, of world events, and of the increasing interdependence of the nations and communities within our world.
Exposure to the Law
There are many good reasons to explore the law and the legal profession before entering law school.
a more realistic view of the actual practice of law, the skills you will need, and the realities of the legal employment market.  
Take advantage of opportunities to shadow, network with, or be mentored by practicing lawyers. 
Lawyers have a chance to further the public good and have an impact on the way the world runs.
Seek credit-bearing or paid internships in law-related settings during college breaks and summers.
Democracy is a system of government in which the citizens of a nation determine its policies through elected representatives, direct voting, or in most cases, a combination of the two. 
Legal employers are increasingly seeking law school graduates who are practice-ready.  Your experience before law school can help you hit the ground running when you become a lawyer.
all of the skills, values, knowledge, and experience suggested in this Statement, as you may be able to continue to develop these during the initial years of law school
Criminal Law, focusing on the relationship between law and crime, Property Law, dealing with real property, Intellectual Property Law, dealing with intangible assets, Commercial Law, relating to all things involved with commerce and industry, Environmental Law, focusing on the protection and regulation of the natural environment, Family Law, pertaining to family-related matters,International Law, pertaining to relationships between states and countries
democracies are a crucial step in achieving equality for oppressed groups by giving people who would otherwise be excluded from politics the ability to vote for the policies and people that they believe in.
democracy allows all groups, regardless of race, gender identity, class or sexual orientation, to participate in politics.
democracy allow all people to have an equal voice
allows for the government to adapt according to changing ideologies.
democracies are the most statistically significant factor in reducing inter and intra state conflict.
Other law topics include: employment law, health care law, insurance law, patent law, international law, estates and trusts, civil law, corporate law, entertainment law, immigration law, maritime law, media law, mental health law, social law, sports law, tax law and others.
political decisions people make will affect many lives
law schools now present unprecedented opportunity for non-traditional students through online and distance learning programs
reading, but I had no idea that horror stories of law students spending all day and all night in the library were actually true.
engage in political processes, using the pressure points built into the system, then every individual really does have the opportunity to change the world. 
Work hard, work smart, be organised
Everyone will try to pawn free legal advice from you
discover our own political beliefs and to see in much greater detail the benefits and disadvantages of the vast array of political ideologies that are present in the world today.
able to express what you believe accurately and concisely is extremely useful, and forces you to really look at yourself!
change our nation and allow the principles we hold dear to thrive.
lawyer, court, attorney, legal, litigation, solicitor, law, prosecutor, statutory, common law, barrister, counsel, sister in law, harvard law school, law school, family law, lawsuit, civil law, free legal advice, law firm, law dictionary, international law, legal advice, law firms, case law.
fundamental subjects of all law: contracts, torts, civil procedure, property, criminal law, and constitutional law.
DO THE READING, Do all of the reading assigned for your courses.
Do not fall behind; you may never catch up.
Do your reading at times of the day when you are most alert.
Also, do your reading in a location where you will not be distracted or tempted to do something else.
Otherwise, you will find that it takes you far longer than necessary to prepare for class.
BRIEF THE CASES.
Take notes while reading.
For each assigned case, write down the legally significant facts, the holding of the case, and the rationale for the court's decision.
This is what is referred to as "briefing" cases.
Your case briefs should be just that-brief.
Most individuals who are lawyers in the United States have the Juris Doctor (JD) degree.
The Juris Doctor degree is not only considered the first law degree in the United States but is also the most well-known and one that’s offered through the American Bar Association.
At first I thought I would be a commercial lawyer, then I wanted to pursue more environmental and human rights avenues, but in my final year, after winning a scholarship to a Harvard Law School.
Critical Reading Abilities.
Preparation for legal education should include substantial experience at close reading and critical analysis of complex textual material, for much of what you will do as a law student and lawyer involves careful reading and comprehension of judicial opinions, statues, documents, and other written materials.
As with the other skills discussed in this Statement, you can develop your critical reading ability in a wide range of experiences, including the close reading of complex material in literature, political or economic theory, philosophy, or history.
The particular nature of the materials examined is not crucial; what is important is that law school should not be the first time that you are rigorously engaged in the enterprise of carefully reading and understanding, and critically analyzing, complex written material of substantial length.
Writing Skills
As you seek to prepare for a legal education, you should develop a high degree of skill at written communication.
Language is the most important tool of a lawyer, and lawyers must learn to express themselves clearly and concisely.
Legal education will provide you with good training in writing, and particularly in the specific techniques and forms of written expression that are common in the law.
Fundamental writing skills, however, must be acquired and refined before you enter law school.
You should seek as many experiences as possible that will require rigorous and analytical writing, including preparing original pieces of substantial length and revising written work in response to constructive criticism.
Oral Communication and Listening Abilities.
The ability to speak clearly and persuasively is another skill that is essential to your success in law school and the practice of law.
You must also have excellent listening skills if you are to understand your clients and others with whom you will interact daily.
As with writing skills, legal education provides excellent opportunities for refining oral communication skills, and particularly for practicing the forms and techniques of oral expression that are most common in the practice of law.
Before coming to law school, however, you should seek to develop your basic speaking and listening skills, such as by engaging in debate, making formal presentations in class, or speaking before groups in school, the community, or the workplace.
General Research Skills.
Although there are many research sources and techniques that are specific to the law, you do not have to have developed any familiarity with these specific skills or materials before entering law school.
However, it would be to your advantage to come to law school having had the experience of undertaking a project that requires significant library research and the analysis of large amounts of information obtained from that research.
The ability to use a personal computer is also necessary for law students, both for word processing and for computerized legal research.
Task Organization and Management Skills.
To study and practice law, you are going to need to be able to organize large amounts of information, identify objectives, and create a structure for applying that information in an efficient way in order to achieve desired results.
Many law school courses, for example, are graded primarily on the basis of one examination at the end of the course, and many projects in the practice of law require the compilation of large amounts of information from a wide variety of sources.
You are going to need to be able to prepare and assimilate large amounts of information in an effective and efficient manner.
Some of the requisite experience can be obtained through undertaking school projects that require substantial research and writing, or through the preparation of major reports for an employer, a school, or a civic organization.