What a doctor does will differ depending on the kind of medicine they practice
Approximately half of doctors work in a hospital setting, either as a surgeon or as a specialized doctor
The other half or so of medical students will end up becoming general practitioners, seeing patients of all ages within a particular community.
A doctor typically works very long hours and has to be available for emergencies.
These hours are spent seeing patients in an office-based setting, running tests as well as interpreting them, prescribing medicine or treatments, doing rounds in the hospital, making notes on patient's physical conditions, advising patients on how to stay healthy and talking to them about further treatment
A doctor that also performs surgeries will usually work two or three full days in the office and then two or three days in the hospital operating room performing surgeries
Doctors will also invest time completing administrative duties such as updating patient records, returning phone calls, or dealing with various office issues.
Doctors meet and talk with patients and caregivers to diagnose, manage and treat illnesses and injuries.
A doctor is someone who is experienced and certified to practice medicine to help maintain or restore physical and mental health
A doctor can work in any of several medical settings, such as private practices and hospitals as well as in teaching or medical research.
Surgeons need far more than their medical knowledge to excel in the field
Hand-eye coordination, manual dexterity and attention to detail are all absolute musts for anyone doing small but vital jobs like severing blood vessels, cutting out tumors or stitching wounds.
A surgeon is only one member of the team that performs a surgery – there will be assistants, nurses, anesthesiologists and other professionals present some or all of the time.
Surgeons have a distinct knowledge of the procedure they are carrying out – but as we said before, they need the help from others to complete the job.
As with any other medical field, not everything in the operating theatre goes to plan.
surgeons need a huge dose of patience and stamina to get them through gruelling operations
Disease, any harmful deviation from the normal structural or functional state of an organism, generally associated with certain signs and symptoms and differing in nature from physical injury
work in hospitals or other healthcare facilities, research labs, or be part of the medical department in other professional fields.
intended to verify medical errors and defend patients' rights.
need new cures and treatments for chronic illnesses, and healthcare institutes need managers that understand the core values and principles of Medicine.
Many doctors and medical staff confess that the interactions with patients and family members touch them deeply and often change the way they see their profession or even life priorities.
Knowing that you play a big role in restoring their health and relieving their pain is perhaps the strongest and most important reason why so many people choose to study and work in Medicine.
The need for healthcare professionals is so high that in most cases, Medicine students get a job soon after they graduate.
Many students go into Medical studies because the human body is fascinating.
examine cells, conduct experiments, and find new ways to improve our wellness and health.
discover more about the human organism, we realise there’s so much we do not yet know.
It allows you to look where others have looked and discover something they either missed or couldn’t understand at that time.
understand our bodies and the immune system.
learn how disease spreads and develop better cures and preventive medicine.
There’s something unique about looking after people’s health and helping them recover and start living again.
passionate about science, healthcare and helping people, and you find the human body fascinating
Helping others in an incredibly significant way
Most people value their health above everything else in their lives whether they know it or not.
doctors have the incredible opportunity to restore these people’s lives to normalcy and even save some from death itself.
learning everything there is to know about the human body.
The human body itself is an incredible thing to study and medical students and doctors have the opportunity to further examine it with the most innovative technology.
From the pumping of the heart to drugs that take away pain to machines that allow you look inside a person, modern medicine remains one of the most fascinating subjects in the world.
doctors are trusted with sensitive information that most other people would not have access to.
Patients share their deepest concerns with their doctors in hopes of being healed.
leaders in health care and often have the final say on treatment decisions.
clinical research, basic science research, journalism, consulting, business ventures, hospital administration, public health, and public policy.
Doctors have to use their intelligence and technical skills to treat patients.
Many surgeons and other procedure-based doctors love to work with their hands to find and fix problems.
Classes in biostatistics and epidemiology are also helpful
When a medical career is in your future, a degree in biology is a fantastic place to start.
studying biology also shows that you are interested in life and the things that make it possible.
Biology courses cover a range of living organisms from cells to human beings.
discover how different organisms live and reproduce, and the classes you take show you how various organs work together to keep you alive.
discover creatures that lived long before people.
Biology is the right course if you want to learn as much as possible about life and the many forms it takes.
human physiology zooms in on the human body and the way it works.
Medical schools can also carry out medical research and operate teaching hospitals
learning human physiology is a perfect starting point for any aspiring medical expert.
Around the world, criteria, structure, teaching methodology, and nature of medical programs offered at medical schools vary considerably. 
study the chemistry of life, and you take a close look at cells and how they operate.
Biochemistry programs cover how cells produce energy, move and reproduce.
explore DNA and genetics, the building blocks of life.
learn the role genetics play in hair and eye color, but you also discover how genetics impact a person’s odds of getting certain diseases.
curious about human behavior and what makes people tick
 learn about mental health issues and the things that cause them.
Most nursing students put in a lot more clinical hours than other medical students.
discover how the latest technology can save and improve the lives of countless patients across the globe.
Biomedical engineers are the ones who developed magnetic resonance imaging and the technology that makes laser surgery possible, and these advances have changed the world in many positive ways.
Medical doctors get to witness humanity at its very best and very worst.
desire to save lives
Medical schools are often highly competitive, using standardized entrance examinations, as well as grade point average and leadership roles, to narrow the selection criteria for candidates. In most countries, the study of medicine is completed as an undergraduate degree not requiring prerequisite undergraduate coursework.
almost all medical degrees are second entry degrees, and require several years of previous study at the university level.
Medical degrees are awarded to medical students after the completion of their degree program,
Many modern medical schools integrate clinical education with basic sciences from the beginning of the curriculum
More traditional curricula are usually divided into preclinical and clinical blocks.
In preclinical sciences, students study subjects such as biochemistry, genetics, pharmacology, pathology, anatomy, physiology and medical microbiology, among others. Subsequent clinical rotations usually include internal medicine, general surgery, pediatrics, psychiatry, and obstetrics and gynecology, among others.
Paramedics serve a vital role in healthcare because of their ability to show compassion, safely transport patients to a hospital, and provide first aid during medical emergencies.
Deciding to become a paramedic could mean being front and center in helping others through, and out of emergency situations.
provide care and treatment at the scene of an emergency.
Although medical schools confer upon graduates a medical degree, a physician typically may not legally practice medicine until licensed by the local government authority
Helping others in times of need is a great feeling and something that can make you feel proud.
the need for emergency medical responders and services will grow as well.
Medical schools are regulated by each country and appear in the World Directory of Medical Schools
AVICENNA Directory for Medicine and the FAIMER International Medical Education Directory.
These are generally Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Calculus, Statistics, and Humanities
A major in biology will be incredibly helpful on your way to medical school.
critical in times of an emergency.
A biology major will incorporate most, if not all, the prerequisites medical schools will ask for. 
Paramedics are also responsible for stabilizing patients, transporting them safely to a hospital or medical care facility, and much more
The major will also require courses in human anatomy and physiology as well as genetics and cell biology.
Chemistry can also be a great major for the future medical student. 
take care of our health in order to live longer.
Chemistry majors are usually required to take courses in biology, physics, and calculus as well as chemistry. They are also usually required to take classes like biochemistry, which will also be beneficial in medical school classes.
A degree in medical technology will be great for admission to medical school.
A career as a medical technologist. 
A degree in nursing will definitely prepare you to look after patients
Accepted to medical school. 
Like the degree in medical technology, you can get a job as a nurse if medical school doesn’t quite go the way you want.
Aspiring sports medicine doctor. 
In addition, the program requires you to take courses in human anatomy, cell biology, and nutrition. All of these will be very helpful in medical school courses.
One year of Biology with lab
provide emergency care to those in need.
Their primary duty is to save the life of the victim.
available every time they are called for medical assistance and accidents.
should have fast-response and quick-thinking skills, so that the sick and injured patients may survive long enough to make it to the hospital or to a medical facility.
first medical responder to an emergency situation.
individuals who sacrifice a lot in order to help the lives of the people.
provide care, support and treatment for the sick, the injured and the dying and support their families and communities.
detect illnesses, administer medicines, assist in surgeries, treat patients beyond the initial diagnosis, provide mental support and perform any number of other key roles.
nurses are intrinsically linked to a country’s ability to address health priorities.
diagnose, prescribe and treat patients.
One year of General Chemistry with lab, One year of Organic Chemistry with lab, One semester of Biochemistry, One year of Physics with lab, One year of English
quality affordable timely and accessible health care.
healthcare staff to interact with patients and sometimes the only health professional a patient will ever see.
checking your vitals
We recommend that premedical students take Biology 305-306 (Human Physiology I & II) during their sophomore or junior year
You should also take additional upper level science courses, in order to demonstrate that you can succeed in medical school coursework
Preceptorship in Health or Veterinary Sciences
In which a pre-medical students observe and assists practicing doctors
Biology courses cover a range of living organisms from cells to human beings. 
You will discover how different organisms live and reproduce,
Human physiology is another outstanding degree program for those interested in the medical field. 
 The nervous, skeletal, respiratory and muscular are just a few of the systems the course covers. 
serving on the front lines of healthcare
understand basic health information to make informed decisions
A physiology degree helps you stand out because it highlights your understanding of the human body.
 After you get a basic overview of cell life, you explore DNA and genetics, the building blocks of life.
You learn the role genetics play in hair and eye color, but you also discover how genetics impact a person’s odds of getting certain diseases.
mental health issues and the things that cause them
deep scientific knowledge of the field of medicine
oncology to gynecology as they often have to help patients deal with a multitude of different issues.
medical expert
will learn how to communicate with patients in a way that promotes trust and openness.
learn how to help your patients
nursing is a good undergraduate degree for medical students
Some people say a nursing degree is a waste of time for those who want to become doctors
triaging and helping every patient
important people within the healthcare system
working long hours at a clinic
long hours required to get a nursing degree give you tons of soft skills that help no matter the area in which you later specialize.
undergraduate programs for medical students, biology, physiology and related studies will often come to mind. 
English degree as a starting point for a career as a medical doctor, but more medical experts than you think started as English majors.
In the world of medicine, missing a small detail could mean the difference between life and death for a patient, and that’s a chance nobody can afford to take
When you become a doctor, your ability to treat patients depends on your ability to communicate with them effectively.
Some doctors avoid saying too much because they don’t want to confuse their patients, but others try speaking in medical jargon
 Both of those mistakes make it hard for doctors to give people the exact care they need.
They know how to break complex ideas down into simple terms their patients can understand
medical professional. 
but getting a biomedical engineering degree makes you stand out in a powerful way
Besides learning about biology and medicine, you discover how the latest technology can save and improve the lives of countless patients across the globe.
Economics might not have a place in standard medicine, 
Biomedical engineers are the ones who developed magnetic resonance imaging and the technology that makes laser surgery possible, and these advances have changed the world in many positive ways.
those skills to solve medical problems for their patients,
 you could end up in charge of a health clinic
There are many paths to medicine
health related courses
Two years are medical theory, containing all basic sciences related to medicine.
Three years during which the student receives both theoretical and practical training with total immersion in the hospital environment, it consists of clinical issues related to all medical specialties.
During these three years, the student has to attend at the university hospital every day, rotating around all wards. Every period is followed by a clinical exam regarding the student's knowledge in that particular specialty.
Two years on internship, in which the student is a physician but under the supervision of the chief doctor
degree of Doctor of Medicine
Whether the student chooses to be a family doctor or a specialist
In contrast, studies in dental medicine (general practitioner) and pharmaceutical studies last only 6 years. Courses throughout the university curriculum in both medicine and pharmacy are taught in French.
There are four universities of general medicine: the Faculty of Medicine of Tunis, the Faculty of Medicine Ibn El Jazzar of Sousse, the Faculty of Medicine of Monastir and the Faculty of Medicine of Sfax.
On the other hand, there is only one university of dentistry and pharmacy in Monastir: the faculty of dentistry of Monastir[12] and the faculty of pharmacy of Monastir
Pathology (Histopathology), Medical Microbiology, Chemical Pathology, Hematology, Forensic Pathology, Immunology and Toxicology. A professional exam is written at the end of the third year and the student has to pass to proceed.
school of medicine
a medical student in their final year to serve their community time overseas.
there are public and private medical schools
Doctor of Medicine, or both Doctor of Medicine and Doctor of Surgery.
In daily practice, however, there is no substantial difference between what a Doctor of Medicine or a Doctor of Medicine and Doctor of Surgery are allowed to do
In addition, there is a provincial ID, i. e. a number to identify doctors in the province they practice medicine in
she volunteered to file x-rays at the local hospital, then parlayed that into an opportunity to talk with the radiologist
medicine isn't for everyone,
Most doctors are happy to sit down with students who are considering a career in medicine."
Other ways to get medical experience include becoming a Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA), a volunteer emergency medical technician (EMT), or as a hospital scribe doing data entry
Some applicants are able to gain clinical experience by helping to care for family members.
Undergraduate research experience really shines through on medical school applications. 
Most medical schools want students who are interested in research
Get Some Medical Experience on Your Résumé
Job shadow with doctors and other medical professionals. Admissions committees don't expect applicants to have real experience actually treating patients.
Job shadowing is a great way to get some medical experience but there are other non-shadowing opportunities that may be available to you.
a career in medicine will be like. says Dr. Sarah Carlson, a vascular surgery resident at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, who has also served on a medical school admissions committee.
Review physiology, Read about medical humanities., Develop effective strategies for coping with stress., Learn another language.
Physiology is a conceptual course that can be better grasped if you avoid memorization and try to understand the principles through careful study.
A strong understanding of physiology can help you excel in the basic science 
Strong knowledge in physiology is also useful during your clinical years.
Much of what you learn in a physiology course about the workings of the human body will be applicable as you rotate through different clinical services such as internal medicine, surgery, and obstetrics and gynecology.
For example, if you encounter a patient with acute renal failure on a clinical rotation, your knowledge of physiology will be paramount to determining the cause of the renal failure and administering the appropriate treatment.
With a strong knowledge of physiology, you will grasp clinical concepts more rapidly and excel on clinical rotations.
Read About Medical Humanities
Beyond medical sciences like physiology, being a good doctor also requires understanding the human side of medicine.
 The months leading up to the start of med school are a great time to explore issues related to the medical humanities.
Develop Effective Strategies for Coping With Stress
Medical school and residency can be quite time-intensive and stressful
Having an outlet to balance your academic and clinical activities can be a useful way to relieve stress and have a more productive experience.
There are many effective outlets through which med students and physicians may find balance, including sports, music, the arts, meditation or yoga.
If you already have a strategy that has worked in the past, use the time before med school to find out how you would work your outside interest into your academic schedule as a med student for a healthy life balance.
For example, if you are an avid tennis player, you may want to find out where you can play at or near your med school and potentially find others to play with.
Try yoga or start learning how to play the guitar.
You may be pleasantly surprised and find yourself engaged in an activity that you never imagined.
When I was a fourth-year med student, I had a rotation where 75% of the patients spoke only Spanish. 
Knowing no Spanish in a clinic where we would see close to 100 patients a day made it very difficult for me to take patient histories and communicate.
Although I was quite busy with clinical duties,
The few months you have before med school is ample time to become conversant in another language and to learn medical terms in that language
Even if you carve out just one to two hours a day to attend to these activities, you will get a great deal of benefit.
And make sure to balance these activities with rest, travel and relaxation.
One source that is primarily audio-based and can be done during your drive home or at the gym is the Michel Thomas Method, an online program with strategies that help you learn a different language faster than you otherwise might.
If you haven’t met with a pre-health advisor, be sure to get an appointment on their calendar.
it’s a good idea to ask detailed questions about the timeline for applying to medical school.
Ask which courses are required for medical school, and the best order in which to take them at your school.
Your advisor may also have ideas to help you gain health-related experiences, internships, and lab experiences.
Attend career/health professions fairs.

Increase your activity and responsibility in clubs.
Becoming a doctor is not an easy task. It involves hard work, extensive preparation, and a certain level of intensity. 
In this post, we’ll go over the steps to becoming a doctor
how do you prepare for your future medical career?
Keep your goal of becoming a doctor in mind as you decide which universities to apply to.
whether hospitals are accessible
Your time in college is critical to your medical career because your undergraduate years are when you complete your pre-med requirements 
Medical school has extensive requirements to be completed as part of your undergraduate studies.
These requirements generally include multiple semesters of biology, physics, chemistry, organic chemistry, biochemistry, and math. 
Health is a State of Mind and Body
Health Guides
It’s important to take care of both your mind and body.
Allowing you to take charge of your life and feel good about the choices you make
Gaining energy and feeling more fit.
Improving your physical health.
Gaining a positive outlook and finding more enjoyment in your life.
Being a role model for your family and friends.
Wellness and fitness involve being aware and making healthy choices about diet, exercise, and staying positive.
Strive for the best health you can have in all areas of your life by making mindful, healthy choices.
Caring for your physical health through proper diet and nutrition
Whether meal preparation is for yourself or your family, focus on making smart, healthy meals. 
Make an effort to have more home-cooked meals.
This can help encourage healthy eating. Also, it promotes more family time.

Let your kids help plan what to eat.
Kids love to help make meals and snacks.
Keep healthy snacks on hand to help kids make good choices. 
Have more fresh fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Have fewer chips and sweets.
Teach kids to eat when they’re hungry, not when they’re bored, sad, or angry.
Respect their ability to know when they feel full.
Breakfast helps jump start the day.
It provides fuel for an active lifestyle and gives you and your child the energy to think faster and more clearly.
Play “Put the Fork Down” at meals.
Put your forks down between bites and take turns sharing your day.
Balance. Balance what you eat to meet your need for nutrition and enjoyment.
Variety. Enjoy all foods from important food groups (fruits, vegetables, lean sources of protein, low-fat dairy, and whole grains).
Moderation. Focus on feeling comfortable instead of being too full after you eat. Use moderation when choosing less nutritious foods.
A food and activity journal can help you understand your eating patterns. Also, it can help you find ways to make simple, healthy changes. Ask your family doctor about how to get started.
When unhealthy food choices lead to weight gain, some people turn to popular diets to achieve quick weight loss. 
Diets usually tell you what you should or should not eat. Instead, focus on understanding why you eat in the first place. 
Also, don’t restrict your foods. Try to balance between good and bad choices. Make good choices more often and limit the bad foods to small portions once in a while.
For lasting dietary changes, there are some simple keys to eating healthy.
Hunger signals your body when it needs to be nourished. 