Visual communication design practice includes the use of design thinking skills and design as a process.
In Visual Communication Design, students develop the skills and practice to communicate ideas and messages in visual communications.
Drawing conventions and the use of design elements and principles are the primary components of the visual language that students use to represent concepts, in relation to a specific purpose and audience.
Students explore the practices of a diversity of designers and investigate the role of visual communication design in different societies, cultures and contexts, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures.
All teachers must follow the relevant protocols when teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander histories and cultures.
The protocols provide guidelines about how to protect the integrity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultural expressions and enable all Victorian teachers and students to engage respectfully and feel connected to this identity.
Making in the Visual Communication Design curriculum (VCD) involves the communication of ideas and information through the use of drawing conventions, design elements and principles, skills, techniques and processes.
Students communicate concepts through generating and making visual communications in different forms and styles.
They use materials, media, methods and technologies to plan and make visual communications for specific purposes and audiences.
Responding in VCD involves students responding to their own visual communications, and as audience members, when they view, analyse, enjoy, appreciate and evaluate visual communications.
Responding also focuses on investigating, identifying, and describing whilst developing skills in appreciation, criticism and aesthetics.
In both making and responding, students engage with the key knowledge and skills of visual communication design practices.
Students explore the practices of a diversity of designers and investigate the role of visual communication design in different societies, cultures and contexts.
Through the study of designers and their practices, students will gain an understanding of the knowledge and skills that are used to plan and make visual communications.
These are not an exclusive, exhaustive list, but an indication of the breadth of study within Visual Communication Design.
Students explore their knowledge and understanding of visual communication design practices as both designers and audiences.
As students’ progress through the Visual Communication Design curriculum, their knowledge and understanding of different design fields increases as they view and develop a range of styles of visual communication.
They discover new ways of communicating and presenting their ideas through the use of new methods and technologies.
They apply critical thinking to reflect on their ideas and use of design elements, design principles, materials, methods, media and technologies.
Visual Communication Design practices involve students investigating, making, analysing and evaluating how the designer generates, develops and presents their intended ideas. 
The students' own visual communications are informed by the research into the practice of designers from different historical periods and cultures. 
Students select and apply materials, methods, media and technologies to create visual communications.
Their practices also include the use of design elements and design principles to communicate ideas and information. 
They also respond as an informed audience to visual communication presentations in a range of fields and formats.
Students develop an understanding of visualisation and communication by using drawing conventions. 
They communicate and present concepts and ideas using a range of materials, media, methods and technologies in two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) formats.
Students learn about and explore traditional and contemporary conventions involved in the making of visual communication designs.
These include the use of design elements such as point, line, shape, colour, tone, texture, form and type, and principles such as balance, contrast, scale hierarchy, cropping, proportion, figure-ground and pattern.
Students learn critical, creative and reflective thinking.
The stages of a design process form a framework for the creation of visual communications.
Students respond to/or write a brief and research, generate ideas, develop concepts and refine visual communications.
Through making and responding students become increasingly proficient with methods, materials, media and technologies.
As they progress in their learning, students develop skills in observational drawing for the purpose of visualisation and the presentation of ideas. 
They develop communication skills as they intentionally plan, develop and refine visual communications for various audiences, purposes and contexts.
Students learn a wide range of technical processes used to make visual communications.
They understand that media and materials are applied with different methods to create two and three-dimensional presentations. 
Methods include traditional and contemporary techniques, and processes such as drawing, painting, printing, digital processes, collage, photography, and 3-dimensional processes. 
Drawing conventions are used to observe objects, visualise and present ideas, and students acquire specific skills in both manual and digital drawing conventions.
Students learn to manipulate and adapt a wide range of physical media.
They understand how media are applied to produce visual communications.
Media may include using traditional materials such as paint, graphite charcoal and ink and contemporary media such as computer software or applications, including vector and raster-based programs.
Students learn to apply media to a wide range of physical materials. 
Materials may include paper, card, wood, glass, metal, clay, stone, plastic, textiles and digital screen-based technologies.
Visual storytelling can be intimidating.
Sometimes the best way to tell stories is through thoughtfully crafted visuals, not long paragraphs of text.
Creating visuals is not reserved for designers, illustrators, or artists.
The key to becoming more comfortable with visual communication is unlearning the rules you’ve subconsciously collected.
Growing up, I loved creating rainbow text with WordArt, adding fancy document borders, and downloading decorative fonts on Dafont.
I had no notion of what makes up “good” or “bad” visual design.
Through these moments of play, I started to build the foundation of my visual intuition.
Visual storytelling is the process of conveying ideas using things you can see.
As we get older, visual storytelling becomes more intimidating because we’re conditioned to believe visuals are childish or purely decorative.
We’re taught that all writing needs to be in 12pt Times New Roman and double spaced on letter-sized paper.
We’re told that it’s “more professional” to minimize exclamation marks and emojis. 
We make excuses like “I’m just not artistic enough.”
Today, I communicate with visuals daily.
I guide emerging designers to develop their visual intuitions and I design products for homeschooling families.
Becoming a better visual storyteller is all about balancing play and practice with a foundation of principles. 
It’s about finding the happy medium between having fun with WordArt and playing it safe with Times New Roman.
we will explore visual principles, highlight why visual storytelling is a valuable skill for everyone to learn, and demonstrate how you can improve your visual storytelling through play.
At its most basic level, visual communication design (formerly graphic design) is a creative process that combines the visual arts and technology to communicate ideas. 
It begins with a message that, in the hands of a talented designer, is transformed into visual communication that transcends mere words and pictures.
By controlling color, type, movement, symbols, and images, the visual communication designer creates and manages the production of visuals designed to inform, educate, persuade, and even entertain a specific audience.
At its core, the Notre Dame visual communication design program supports the idea that a designer can make a difference not only in the strategic plan of a business but also in the world.
As design professionals, Notre Dame graduates will be responsible for the future of our visual culture.
The Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) degree requires 66 hours of coursework (or 21 courses) in the major area while the Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree requires 36 (or 12 courses).
What are the elements of art exactly?
Traditional way of looking at art, namely the visual arts, suggests that there are five basic elements of an art work – line, shape, color, texture and space. 
which is described as a parameter that determines the intensity of color, and pattern, which refers to repetition.
After all, it is usually the first and the most pristine outcome of our contact with writing tools, pens, pencils, crayons, etc,
Shapes are defined as two-dimensional figures that we can discern as familiar. 
These include geometric shapes (deployed by cubists, for example), organic (which you may find among the examples of Art Nouveau posters and paintings), abstract, etc. 
Form, on the other hand, is a three-dimensional figure, meaning that it occupies a certain amount of space. 
This means that even when a painting aims to illustrate a single form, such as a cube, for example, it actually depicts the shape taken up by the form, as seen from a certain angle. 
Obviously, form is much more frequently deployed in plastic arts, sculpture and architecture than in painting and drawing, however the communication between the two – the shape and the form – is the crucial aspect of many art genres. 
There is one interesting observation that examines the way we perceive certain shapes and why we perceive them as such, for that matter. 
While the reference to the organic and the geometric ones should be obvious – the former we see in our natural surroundings, the latter was invented by humans themselves – our ability to recognize the abstract is not as easily explained. 
While growing up and building experience, we learn to detect or dismiss objects and their forms in time, meaning that our brain organizes the percept in our memory.
This helps us identify those that cannot be named or attributed to the organic ones, and perceive closed or almost-closed lines as shapes, and not lines.
All art is placed within a certain space (aren’t we all, in the end).
But when it comes to visual arts, there are several ways in which we tend to use the term space.
Space is often illusively recreated in a painting or a drawing, realistically or in a distorted manner. 
As much as the representation of space is an important part of all visual arts, especially when being trained for painting or when studying architecture for example, it is the least engaging way to refer to the term as an art element at this point, since it functions on the same principle as shape/form analogy does. 
At times, the word-space is used conditionally, to refer to the two-dimensional negative space left in the piece of canvas or paper. 
A “blank”, or simply negative space, is sometimes a constituent part of an artwork, but rarely in an explicit manner.
The intact part of the paper is very often deliberately left that way, in order to create the desired context and to suggest the right scale for observing the subject matter, which thus occupies the so-called positive space.
Consequently, a piece of art, be it a sculpture, an assemblage, an installation or even a painting, occupies a particular physical space with a certain purpose.
More often than not, the decision to surround a work of art with certain elements or to position it against a particular backdrop is intentional and integral to the artwork.
The distance from which we may be able to observe a painting and the possibility to circle around an exhibit are almost as relevant as the content of the artwork itself.
This is specifically important for art installations, since the concepts behind them are usually site-specific, or at least site-suggestive, meaning that the venue is dictated by the character of the installation.
The idea of negative and positive space applies here as well, but it tends to create confusion when it comes to large-scale pieces and art installations.
Sculpture isn't simply an object in space.
It lives through the processional or returning view. 
Finally, two qualities that strike us in everyday life and serve as an inexhaustible source of inspiration are color and texture, both of which have been studied, both in arts and science, for centuries.
Color is the light reflected off objects, perceived in different hues depending on the wavelength.
Thanks to the so-called cone and rode cells, our eyes are able to absorb the light and to distinguish three channels of colors that consequently burst into millions of tones, which makes our world appear so beautiful and vivid.
Allegedly, colors are able to induce the widest range of emotions out all the visual art elements, which is why they are often seen as enigmatic and cryptic as if they truly possess a power to affect our emotional state.
The use of colors in contemporary psychology is therefore numerous, as both through our experience and our innate physical responses each color becomes associated with a variety of feelings, and lately even with certain social and political significations as well.
The list of artists who researched color and its implicit language is quite a long one, and it involves the Bauhaus mystic Johannes Itten, the color-field painters Rothko, Newman and Klein, the minimalist Frank Stella and the Op Art pioneer Bridget Riley, the aforementioned Anish Kapoor…
This could basically go on for hours, given that the significance and impact of color is crucial for arts, meaning that even when there is no color, it becomes a subject of why there is no color.
Similarly, when the colors are not imitating the ones from real life, they express the creator's own assessment of reality, given from a specific standpoint.
For this reason, it was frequently incorporated as an element most apt to deliver a sentiment, either intuitively or intentionally.
As the fascination goes beyond art, people have been struggling to recreate pigments from nature, to synthesize unnatural values and tones of color, and even to see the "forbidden colors" that cannot normally be seen in nature.
Texture is the quality of a surface, which is a sensation perceivable by the skin rather than the eyes.
However, we have been able to build a knowledge of how particularly looking surfaces and materials feel, thanks to their palpable qualities and our experience with them. 
This means that translating the characteristics of a surface onto a plane makes us experience texture through vision, as the painters exhibit their skill in representing the texture truthfully.
Texture can also be a special quality relating to the body of painting itself, one that displays the visible brush strokes as an integral part of the painting, like the one of Wayne Thiebaud below
Nonetheless, the concept of a material's roughness, softness or hardness is also frequently seen in other media, such as sculpture.
The illusion of the material's original quality is often achieved by manipulating crafted materials, such as clay or wood.
On the other hand, the artwork might be playing with our expectations from it, since various materials are commonly used to create illusions of a texture that they do not possess - such as the increasingly popular marble-looking foam rubber in furniture design, or the transparent stone in the architecture of Kengo Kuma.
Before we conclude this article, it would be useful to reflect on the basic art elements and their relevance to today’s art and art education.
At some point, the difference between arts and crafts became drastic, and this “intellectualized” approach to art is a trend that remains to this day. 
However, the means of expressing an idea are still based on the capacities of human senses, which haven’t changed significantly since the beginning of humanity as we know it.
The digitally informed environment might bring some improvements to our senses, or even some decreases for that matter, but until that happens, everything we are able to feel and experience is still going to be served for the same receptors, our eyes, our skin, and ears.
The subject matter and the way we explore each of the elements of art changed over time, which led to an altered approach to these features.
Gestalt psychology was mentioned in this text, due to its main principle that points out how human perception acknowledges the whole as other than a sum of parts. 
It recognizes the anthropological tendency to group similar traits and to categorize information, to connect parts and to deduce meaning rather than merely observe without contemplation. 
It could be said that visual representation functions according to this theory, but so does our cognitive ability to consider different ideas and phenomena.
Hence, it is important to mention that modern art was a time of exploration, a time of departure from tradition, and also a moment to abandon everything we know and to grasp the uncanny, which at times meant separating each of these elements and challenging the Gestalt.
We can see the outcomes of these intents through many historical movements, such as De Stijl, the Bauhaus, Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism, and so further. 
The elements were finally reduced to their essential notions in abstract art. 
Finally, now that we've overcome the modern era, and probably the postmodern as well, we are beginning to find new purpose for each of the classic elements of art, aware of how they were reinvented in the era of modernism.
This means that everything can be brought into question, and the possibility of a single meaning no longer exists, just like the post-structuralist philosophy suggests. 
Our beautiful visual world is richer than ever, and so are the ever-progressing means of representation.
Juhani Pallasmaa wrote The Eyes of the Skin in 1996, and it has become a classic of architectural theory.
However, even though the book mainly centers around the question of why has one single sense – sight – become so predominant in architectural culture and design, it may also be perceived as a guidebook to understanding the power and nature of our five senses. 
Furthermore, it explains the principles on which our sight is based, and how we managed to evaluate and visually approximate the phenomena that do not speak to our eyes.
This brief tutorial introduces the foundational elements of visual communication.
The emphasis is on techniques to graphically communicate (A) hierarchy, (B) grouping and (C) sequence— three concepts that are critical for designing effective figures, posters, and slides.
Position, color, size, shape, and orientation are variables applied to individual graphic elements.
Graphic elements are the units of information that go into making a figure, slide, or poster. 
These include photos, icons, paragraphs of text, and titles.
Next, the graphic elements are combined into compositions where contrast, repetition, proximity, and alignment, defined below, are created.
To learn more about these principles, see The Non-Designer’s Design Book, by Robin Williams.
A figure, poster, or slide is a composition of individual graphic elements.
Contrast: Elements have noticeably different visual characteristics then others in the composition. Created using the variables of color, size, shape, orientation.
Repetition: Elements have consistent visual characteristics within the composition.  Created using color, size, shape, and orientation.
Alignment: Elements have been arranged to create an imaginary line within the composition. Uses the variable of position.
Proximity: Elements are close together within the space of a composition. 
Uses the variable of position.
By wisely using visual variables and creating contrast, repetition, alignment, and proximity within the composition, you can communicate to the viewer the relationships among the elements of your composition. 
Clearly establishing hierarchy, grouping, and sequence through visual methods allows the viewer to quickly understand how the pieces of information in your figure, slide, or poster relate to each other—and therefore to more quickly understand the information itself.
Hierarchy: A dominant-subordinate relationship among elements.
Grouping: A relationship that specifies the elements to be associated together.
Sequence: A relationship among elements that specifies first, second, third…
As you examine the examples in the figure below, consider which of the compositions would communicate differently if it was turned on its side or upside down.
Using position as a way to communicate hierarchy works because we associate dominance in a hierarchy with the physical position of being “above” or “at the top”.
Now that you have seen these principles of visual communication demonstrated using simple shapes and without any context, it is time to apply this thinking to a real design. 
Below is a flyer I designed for a visual communication workshop.
First, identify all the uses of alignment. 
Which of these alignments simply serve to give the poster a tidy appearance, and which have a role in helping to communicate the information in the poster?
If you have created contrast, the viewer expects the contrast to mean something. 
Therefore, if you have several elements in a composition that are similar, keep them visually consistent. 
Don’t choose different colors for each one simply because your software makes it easy to do so.
Students are provided with unique capabilities of information technology that can support the scientific development of Visual Communication Design into Digital Design, Interactive and Print Media. 
Students can apply their knowledge in many case studies such as branding, information design, design for public, photography, illustration, typography and web design into dynamic interactive through digital and print media.
A world-class Visual Communication Design Department, delivering world class designers with distinctive local values and information technology capabilities.
Educating visual communicators who highly exemplify the creative spirit and a commitment to professional attitudes in the fields of new media, animation and creative advertising.
Preparing students for strategic positions in service industries with a strong sense of ethics and entrepreneurship and who can make a contribution to society.

Improving the quality of life of Indonesians and the international community through good design.
Recognizing and rewarding the most creative and value-adding talents.
Designing creative products and conducting professional services in visual communication design with an emphasis on application of knowledge to the society.
To provide students with the principal know-how of creative visual communication, it’s historical and cultural significance, and its core technology. 
To educate graduates who are capable of producing new media portfolios that vividly demonstrates workmanship, creativity, conceptual insights, and attitudes of a professional design standard.
UX Designer, Brand Designer, Visual Storyteller in Publishing Design, Surface Packaging Designer, Game UI Designer, Visual Identity Designer, Graphic Designer, Illustrator, Motion Graphic Designer, Creative Visualizer, In-house Designer, Government & NGO Institutions, Media & News Broadcast Studio, Corporate & Retail Industry
In this specialization, students are equipped with the knowledge and skills to solve the problem relating to creativity, aesthetics visual arts, technology and business model to support the 3D computer graphic industry. 
Students are equipped with the knowledge and skills of up-to-date development of 3D animation computer graphic technology to answer the requirement of the creative industry both national and international.
Visual storytelling can be intimidating. 
We’re taught to communicate with words, but words are not always the best way to convey information and ideas
Sometimes the best way to tell stories is through thoughtfully crafted visuals, not long paragraphs of text.
Creating visuals is not reserved for designers, illustrators, or artists. 
The key to becoming more comfortable with visual communication is unlearning the rules you’ve subconsciously collected. 
Growing up, I loved creating rainbow text with WordArt, adding fancy document borders, and downloading decorative fonts on Dafont.
In the Bachelor of Visual Communication Design, you’ll learn to create visual material across a variety of visual formats and channels including broadcast, web, film, television, advertising, publishing, and industry. 
Students completing a double major can choose either a double major from the Visual Communication Design Major options (Double Major Pathway B); or one Visual Communication Design Major and one School of Creative Industries (SOCI)  Major (Double Major Pathway C) from the options listed in the handbook.
The most ideal combinations of majors that reflect industry creative practice for Visual Communication Design Graduates are listed below:
Animation & Interaction and Graphic Design & Illustration
Animation & Interaction and Creative Arts
Graphic Design & Illustration and Creative Arts
Design is everywhere you look: logos, websites, business cards, advertisements, brochures, billboards, product packaging, posters, magazines, books, newspapers, greeting cards, playbills, matchbooks — the list is virtually endless.
Is “visual communications” just a fancy way of saying “graphic design”? Not really. 
The old-guard field of graphic design focused on translating the conceptual to the visual using a variety of 2-D media. 
Emphasis was on creating the form of the message using photos, illustrations and more.
Visual communications includes other types of communications beyond the print medium of the old graphic design industry. 
One example is the design of interactive computer presentations that integrate video, animation, sound, stored images and text.
By its problem-solving nature, visual communications is about combining the “why” of the message with the “how” of the medium for a specific purpose and audience. 
It provides the form of graphic design as well as the function of why this particular medium (printed material, website or other) best suits a particular message.
CareerOneStop, sponsored by the U.S. Department of Labor, projects job growth increase of 18 percent for graphic designers, 18 percent for multimedia artists and animators, and 26 percent for Web developers over the next decade. 
Workforce Solutions of Greater Dallas’s targeted occupations lists graphic designer as a local high growth area, projecting 3,370 job openings this year. 
Good designers aim to move beyond what you get from simply asking consumers what they need and want.
Good designers want to unearth what consumers can’t tell them: latent & emerging needs and motivations; actual behaviors and attitudes; and, crucially, barriers to as well as drivers of change — or simply put, what your competitors don’t also already know.
Secondly, good designers like observing — really looking at what people do rather than simply relying on what they say they do.
Firstly, they have the ability to visualize what has never been.
As Bruce Nussbaum said in the same post, “Many firms are plagued by articulate and persuasive ‘smart talkers’ who sound good in meetings but get bogged down in abstract complexities.” 
Good designers are good at what I call inspirational tangibility, “making it real,” whether it be by concretizing with a sketch what would otherwise be abstract thoughts or so many post-its in a meeting, enabling large amounts of complex data to be understood and absorbed quickly with a diagram, or as Bruce describes it “quickly lashing together a physical or digital mock-up” of a proposed solution.
Secondly, good designers live and work in the future most days, immersed in the activity of actively creating and shaping their client’s future visions of new products and services. 
designing “stuff” is just one very small portion – but I still consider myself a designer more so than a project architect. 
If you don’t see yourself as a designer when you’re doing construction drawings – you’re not in the right job. 
If you consider yourself a designer, you make it a point to notice your surroundings. As a characteristic, designers are curious and they take notice and make notes of things others overlook.
A design is a plan or specification for the construction of an object or system or for the implementation of an activity or process, or the result of that plan or specification in the form of a prototype, product or process. 